Email 

The excitement over the US election is culminating as the due date is getting closer. Each candidate is trying to use any device at hand to denigrate the other and morality is the last thing to strike the minds of the candidates. The fact of the matter is that morality is a dead circle in the American politics. Hillary Clinton, the democratic candidate, uses f-word in a debate ( http://en.institutomanquehue.org/publications/news/did-hillary-clinton-mutter-donald-trump-debate.html ) watched by hundreds of millions of people around the world and finds no shame in it. Even American religious leaders believe that Clinton is not competent to be the president of a religious country like United States ( http://en.institutomanquehue.org/publications/news/christian-right-leader-hillary-clinton-hostile-biblical-christianity.html ). On the other hand, the GOP candidate, Donald trump , has no better condition. His sexual harassments and violent ideas towards women were shocking not only for female victims, but also for the dominant male group in America. The violent use of words to address different groups of people, mainly in social media ( http://en.institutomanquehue.org/publications/news/as-first-lady-melania-trump-wants-to-save-you-from-her-husband.html ) , made it hard for the parents to allow their kids to follow him. Besides, the number of women that accused Trump of groping and rape ( http://en.institutomanquehue.org/publications/news/list-women-accused-donald-trump-of-sexual-assault.html ) is increasing day by day and the list is running on. The so-called locker-room video of Trump talking dirty about women and his attitude towards them leaked to the public to be the final shot on the republican candidate, but it did not have that much affect. It seems that even grabbing “the women by the p…y” could not change their idea about Trump. 
All these information, some released by the opponent candidate and some by other sources mainly WikiLeaks, seems to have had little significance in the public orientation in choosing a candidate. This has less to do with the people than with the administration system and media empire in the United States. 
The fact that Trump does not talk about a rigged-election for respecting democracy and exercising the law is clear as a truth. His words that “I will accept the result of the election if I were chosen” is more like a joke than the words of a would-be president. What Assange is trying to say in his tweet is that the rig is being done on a higher level than the polls or the voting system. The whole administration and political system is rigged in America and the people will not choose a candidate; they are chosen to choose. This is the truth behind the weird public orientation towards election in spite of all the information released about the corruptions of the two candidates in mass media. The fact that the media and the political system are rigging the election in a latent mode is the key to the question raised about the mysteries of the American election.