BNI Store Oct 26 2016 Coming soon, to a French neighborhood near you…7,000 MORE illegal alien Muslim invaders who set fire to their Calais jungle camp as the camp was being shut down Hey, where are all the women and children? Reuters French authorities said on Wednesday they had finished clearing the “Jungle”, a squalid shantytown outside Calais built by Muslim invaders who had hoped to make the passage to Britain but whose last inhabitants are now mostly dispersed around France. The operation passed off peacefully for the most part, though some migrants torched tents and shelters in a last act of defiance as their hopes of a new life in Britain evaporated. Some reports say that British anarchists set fire to the tents. “This is the end of the ‘Jungle’,” Calais regional prefect Fabienne Buccio said. “Mission accomplished.” Earlier in the day, riot police spread out around the camp, and fire trucks moved in to put out blazes that sent plumes of smoke into the sky. Muslim freeloaders from the Middle East, Asia and Africa congregated to Calais hoping to cross the short stretch of sea to Britain by leaping on trucks and trains, or even walking through the tunnel under the Channel. Britain refused to accept the vast majority of them – apart from a number of unaccompanied child migrants (who are actually adults in their 20’s and 30’s) now being processed separately – and high fences were built to keep them away from the port traffic, but still they came. Local opposition to the sprawling slum, along with growing criticism from right-wing politicians, finally stung the French government into action. The British referendum vote this year to quit the European Union was in large part driven by such worries, and stoked by scenes of the Calais migrants trying to force their way in. Hamid, 30, from Afghanistan, said he had been among those setting fire to shelters in the Jungle, and still hoped to cross the Channel to Britain. “We don’t care about problems that are to come after this. We did it because we don’t want to stay in France,” he said. “We want to go to England and England only. It doesn’t matter if I go to jail here.”