BNI Store Oct 28 2016 BELGIUM: Iranian Muslim invader found guilty of drugging, repeatedly raping, and threatening to kill a 15-year-old Belgian schoolgirl, GETS NO JAIL TIME! An Iranian Muslim illegal alien migrant who threatened to kill a runaway schoolgirl if she screamed as he repeatedly raped her has been spared any jail in a shock sentencing. The 20-year-old Muslim whose identity is being protected ( why? ), was found guilty of drugging, raping, and threatening the young girl by the court in Tongeren, Belgium. But the typical Muslim pervert has been spared jail in a shock verdict – and got away with a suspended sentence. UK Express The harrowing incident happened in April 2014, after the young girl and a female friend ran away from their hometown of Bertem. When the friend decided to return home two days later, the 15-year-old carried on her journey – taking a bus from Hasselt to Genk on her own. There, after arriving at 11pm on April 20, she took up with a gang of other young people who were hanging around in the city centre, and was taken to one of their apartments where she was plied with alcohol and drugs. The young girl later fell asleep at the flat, but was woken up just hours later by the 20-year-old Iranian Muslim who repeatedly raped her. During the horrific sex attack, she was bitten by her abuser and nearly suffocated after he put his hands around her throat to stop her screaming. He threatened to kill her if she continued to call for help. The court heard that after the attack, she did not dare to ask for help any more and feared the rest of the group could burst in at any minute and rape her as well. “Rape is the most natural thing in the world,” and “women must obey men,” were just two of the defenses offered by some of the seven Muslim invaders recently arrested for a gang rape of an unconscious 17-year-old white girl in Ostend, Belgium However, despite the aggressive nature of the attack, the migrant has been spared jail. Handing him a suspended sentence, the judge also fined the Iranian £3,680 in compensation to the girl and her family. The sentencing comes just days after an Iraqi asylum seeker had his rape conviction overturned , after his defence lawyers claimed he did not know his 10-year-old victim did not want to be raped.