UNIDENTIFIED (MUSLIM?) ‘knifeman’ on the run after stabbing four people at a Frankfurt train station The attack this afternoon occurred at Hauptwache Station and police have said there are four victims. At this stage the motive for the stabbings is not clear. ( It will become crystal clear once you identify the attacker as a Muslim ) UK Daily Mail (h/t larr) The local police force confirmed the attack by Tweeting: ‘There was a knife assault at the #Hauptwache in #Frankfurt. ‘That’s why so many colleagues [police officers] and rescue workers there.’ Frankfurt Police confirmed all four victims were still in hospital. A video of the bloody aftermath was captured on what is understood to be level B of the station. The incident was at 5.30pm local time, according to Hessenschau , who report the stabbings came after a group were quarreling. A dispute had started on one platform and spilled over onto another one. There was more bloodshed in a separate incident at the station, understood to be on a passenger train between Hauptwache and Taunusanlage. A dispute between two passengers broke out into a fight, according to Hessenschau , which led to glass being broken and people suffering cuts. Frankfurt police looked to reassure the public by tweeting: “If we recognized a threat to the local population we would communicate this.” (No, you wouldn’t) The stabbings will still raise fears the attack was ISLAMIC terror-related after a string of incidents across Europe over recent months. Germany has been rocked by ISLAMIC terror attacks this year, heaping pressure on chancellor Angela Merkel’s open-door MUSLIM immigration policy. A bloody week of violence that rocked Germany began on July 18 when Pakistani MUSLIM teenager Riaz Khan Ahmadzai, 17, posing as an Afghan refugee, hacked at passengers on a train in Wurzburg with an axe, wounding five. Four days later, a German-Iranian MUSLIM teenager Ali Sonboly shot nine people dead during a rampage through a shopping centre in Munich before taking his own life. Pour prouver le lien, l'agence Amaq de l' #EI diffuse une video de l'assaillant du train en Allemagne pic.twitter.com/AxT7qcBQj0 
— David Thomson (@_DavidThomson) July 19, 2016 Two days later a Syrian MUSLIM refugee, 21, hacked a pregnant woman to death in Reutlingen and on the same night Daleel, 27, injured 12 people when he detonated a rucksack packed with metal shards and screws. Daleel carried out the attack on behalf of the ISLAMIC terror group ISIS and had planned to kill hundreds by detonating him bomb at an open-air music festival.