BNI Store Oct 29 2016 The attorney for Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump is looking for the homeless Black woman seen on video being attacked by a mob of Hillary Clinton supporters as she protected Trump’s star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame after it was sledgehammered by a Clinton supporter earlier this week. Videos of the abuse show people yelling at the woman and knocking her to the ground as the insults continue. RT Michael Cohen, Trump Organization EVP and Special Counsel to Donald J. Trump, spoke out on Twitter Friday evening about Mr. Trump’s desire–before it was known to him that she was attacked by the Clinton mob–to present an unspecified gift to the woman. Cohen said he had a friend in Hollywood looking for her. After learning she had been attacked, Cohen promised she would have “the last laugh on these thugs.” . @ClydeStones she deserves to be treated with dignity and compassion. 
— Michael Cohen (@MichaelCohen212) October 29, 2016 A number of videos titled ‘Crazy 4 Trump’ posted on YouTube show a crowd of people surrounding the woman as she holds up banners in support for the Republican presidential nominee. Her hand-written signs promote pro-Trump messages like “Twenty million illegals and Americans sleep on the streets in tents” and “Donald Trump – keeping it real”. . @DiamondandSilk @realDonaldTrump someone please help me locate this woman as Mr. Trump has a gift for her… 
— Michael Cohen (@MichaelCohen212) October 28, 2016 Some of the banners included provocative language, including one targeting the US president, reading, “Obama threw our black asses under the bus, he owes the Clintons, flip this script (get off the Clinton plantation).” A crowd on Hollywood Boulevard, not a hotspot for Trump supporters, did not share the woman’s political preferences. Nor did they choose to let her be. People are heard yelling insults at the woman, but one man temporarily stops the insults. His words calmed the crowd briefly, but verbal abuses continued as someone started accusing the woman of “spewing” hate. Soon, the situation turned violent, with some physically assaulting the woman and damaging her property. She was knocked off her feet, her cart overturned and her banners torn to pieces.