It didn’t happen, it wouldn’t happen. Your sources are liars. I really wish you people who tend to believe a lie, either because you are too young, or two lazy to look up facts. The smoke screens are in place and you believe mainstream media, and don’t have a clue what is going on behind the scenes. If with forged votes, Hilary manages to win the election, we might have a little more time to act like there is nothing wrong with the country. But that too will be a smoke screen and a lie. You know truth matters, obeying laws matter. I dare you and your Hilary supporters to dig deep, and I guarantee you will find that so much evil is being planned and set up by the present establishment. If you read the Executive Orders signed by Obama you will realize He doesn’t plan to leave office. He plans to cause a situation, either by knocking down the propped up economy, which will leave millions without food, a government provided income, and will cause rioting like we have never seen before in America since a full 50% of people in America are supported by the government in some way. all he will have to do is declare Marsjhall Law then and his Executive Orders become the Rule of Law. Social Security and Medicare have been given to illegal immigrants , and taken from the people who worked hard all their lives and paid into the system to be assured of an income and medical care in old age. They will lose their income too, grandma is not only under the bus, but they keep running over her again and again as they kill people off with refusal to treat people for cancers if they have ever had a heart attack or do life saving surgeries. People 60 to 70 will have to prove their worth to the State to get life saving medical care. Age 70 up will simply be given pills to be in less pain and told to die quietly for the good of the state. For the last 30 years a recently declassified weather Weapon called H.A.A.R.P. has been shooting magnetic pulses up into the stratosphere altering wind patterns. The vapor trails in the sky, people have been told are to slow down global warming due to green house gasses. It is the wind pattern change that is causing every symptom of global warming, and is being done by the World Elite to wipe out the majority of our food supply, by severe droughts in the California, that provides 1/3rd of the fruits and vegetables in the world, The floods in the mid west make growing grain almost impossible, the Mega Storms and floods in the East and and Tornado alley are destroying people homes, their businesses, their lives. Hurricane Matthew as was Sandy were generated by that weather weapon bringing 3 storms together by seeding he storms with microscopic heavy metals, and using that electromagnet to move them together to form one big storm. The electromagnets have some more effects that are even more destructive. They are causing the tectonic plates around North America to move 5 times faster than anywhere else in the world. Sorry Leonard Decaprio should stick to acting, and let real scientists expose the coming tragedy if we do not stop that machine soon. Actually with what has been set in motion, it may already be too late to fix what H.A.A.R.P. has changed. Between the flooding on fault lines and the movement of the tectonic plates, we are having increasing earthquake activity, stronger and closer together. Yellowstone is constantly getting small quakes daily, and more signs of volcanic activity, even the buffalo don’t want to stay there. And Some other scientists have realized that the magnetic pulses in the stratosphere are causing the natural protection we had from most meteors is missing in some areas and instead we are about to become a magnet for iron based meteorites .
So you know what, it isn’t going to matter a flip if you don’t buy Ivanka Trumps clothes and boycott the stores if they don’t remove them. You will be fortunate indeed if you have food to eat, and haven’t lost your home to one of many possibilities all caused by the Elite, the CIA, and our elite puppet president, while he smiles real big and thinks how stupid we are. He hasn’t even tried to pretend anymore. In a speech he promised if Trump won, he had a legal plan to keep him from taking control. And if you think he will care how many young white girls die, think again. Since his executive orders give him total control over all food, water, housing, businesses and people. All he will have to say is, “The state has need of this” and he can take it. He can also arrest anyone for suspicion of speaking against the government and hold them without any charges indefinitely thanks to part of a the huge national Defense Act that passed that no one read but voted in… That bill is like Hitler’s enabling act that let him arrest everyone of note in any political party that stood against him. In 1933 Hitler arrested 200,000 legal German citizens who were leaders in political parties, most died in the first Concentration Camps he ever built, or rather had his slave labor build. We have camps just like those, with guard towers, and barbed wire facing in, not to keep bad people out , but top keep good people in. Of course most of America won’t take it lying down, so civil war will break out. I could probably tell you things for hours that have been going on, planned for decades culminating in a one world government, with over half the worlds population dead and gone, because the Elite who call us the eaters, can’t control too many of us. They want to outlaw private property ownership, and own it all themselves and basically take us back to the Dark Ages and use whoever is still alive as Serfs or slaves. I am telling you not what I think, but what I know. What I have researched, and what has been confirmed to me by two Congressmen, several scientists, and a few chasers…Chasers are real people who go wherever they have to go to get to the truth. One friend chased a train for 200 miles trying to take pictures of the changes one of the Bush Presidents paid to have refitted with triple to quadruple decked metal bunks with hand cuffs attached to the wall…a step up in comfort from Hitlers cattle cars. If you don’t know how to pray you might want to start because it is going to get real ugly, real soon. I hope you will at least check this stuff out, and you might want to warn people you care about.