0 66 
A source at MSNBC’s Morning Joe confirms that the newly-elected Trump has made a decision regarding Hillary Clinton’s use of a private email server during her time as secretary of state. Source tells @Morning_Joe @realDonaldTrump won’t pursue investigations into @HillaryClinton for private email server use/Clinton Foundation. 
— Morning Joe (@Morning_Joe) November 22, 2016 
Despite all his campaign bluster, when he was calling Clinton “crooked Hillary” and promising that Clinton would “be in jail” once he was president, it seems Trump has had a change of heart. It seems like only a month ago that Donald Trump told his supporters that: 
‘This is the most heinous, the most serious thing that I’ve ever seen involving justice in the United States — in the history of the United States.’ 
In fact, it was only a month ago. Trump promised his bloodthirsty supporters that he would “lock her up” as president, and just six weeks ago Trump promised during the second presidential debate that he would appoint a “special prosecutor” to look into Hillary Clinton’s “situation” regarding her use of a private email server. 
Five days after being elected, Trump did one of the most rapid walkbacks in presidential history when asked about that “special prosecutor” to throw Hillary Clinton in prison. When asked by 60 Minutes interviewer, Lesley Stahl, about his plans for the former secretary of state, Trump balked. 
‘I don’t want to hurt them. I don’t want to hurt them. They’re, they’re good people. I don’t want to hurt them. And I will give you a very, very good and definitive answer the next time we do 60 Minutes together.’ 
The same man who fanned the flames with supporters who called Clinton a “criminal” and “evil,” who exploited women who claimed that they were sexually assaulted by Bill Clinton and laughed at as a child rape victim by Hillary Clinton, now wants the American public to know that Bill and Hillary Clinton are “good people.” 
Of course, it was never in question whether or not Hillary Clinton would be convicted of a crime or sentenced to prison, since multiple investigations by GOP-led committees regarding Benghazi and two investigations by the FBI regarding the private email server that Clinton and every modern predecessor of hers used turned up no evidence of criminal wrongdoing. 
Just like every other promise Trump made on the campaign trail to attract voters with vengeance and hatred on their minds, it was all just smoke and mirrors. 
Featured image via Getty/Chip Somodevilla Share this Article! 