"Blue Alerts" to be used to keep the 'War on Cops' lie, alive   
Police State America's control of our cell phones and media has taken a dark and twisted turn. Soon, everyone's cell phone will receive a "Blue Alert" warning them that police are looking for someone who's allegedly injured or killed a cop. Americans can expect to see "Blue Alerts" popping up everywhere, on their cellphones, TV's and even their radios .According to the Blue Alert Foundation , a "Blue Alert" is a means to speed the apprehension of violent criminals who kill or seriously injure local, state, or federal law enforcement officers.According to Wikipedia, the National Blue Alert system will pay a Department of Justice officer to become their national coordinator . Congress estimates is will cost taxpayers $1 million dollars annually to maintain the Blue Alert system. DHS controlled EAS warning system "Blue Alerts" will be broadcast over the EAS warning system.The EAS warning system wasn't designed to be used as a propaganda tool. (i'm trying not to scream as i'm typing) But that's exactly, what it's become. The EAS warning system has become a propaganda tool used by DHS/Police to keep Americans in fear. This past September, FEMA (DHS) conducted a national EAS warning test that encompassed radio, broadcast TV, cable, satellite, and other service providers (cell phone).It's hard to imagine a more successful national propaganda device in the hands of a government.DHS has successfully managed to condition the public into accepting MONTHLY test messages in English and Spanish. Earlier this year, I warned everyone that DHS is a master at using scare tactics to keep Americans afraid . As recently as two years ago, DHS was accused of using scare tactics in order to secure congressional funding. Why would anyone, expect DHS "Blue Alerts" to be any different?You can bet former Stasi and KGB officials, would have died to have had such a complete national propaganda device at their disposal. Why do we need a national "Blue Alert" system? The 'War on cops' is a lie A recent Antimedia article , revealed the war against police is pure fiction. The reality is, more cops have died from accidents than by violence. In 2015, the latest year for which the FBI has analyzed data, 41 police officers died as a result of the felonious actions of others. Forty-five died in accidents — 40 of which were attributable to traffic and/or automobile-related incidents . For more information, read the FBI’s annual “Law Enforcement Officers Killed and Assaulted” report . Police groups blame Obama and Black Lives Matter for the BS 'War on cops' According to a Mother Jones article , police groups have joined high-profile right-wing figures in issuing sharp criticisms of those they see as facilitating a 'War on cops.' (President Barack Obama and supporters of the Black Lives Matter movement)In a statement posted on its Facebook page , the National Association of Police Organizations said: "While we mourn and grieve and commit ourselves to supporting the survivors, we must also stand up and speak out against the senseless agitators and gutless politicians who helped bring about these murders." A Huffington Post article , reveals the lie that started the 'war on cops.'