You begin describing small aliens… 
“They were small.” 
“Ah man,” says the cabbie. “Just some little small aliens, huh?” 
He seems disappointed. Wait, I changed my mind. They were big. 
You begin describing the big aliens… 
“They were big.” 
“Wow! Big aliens,” says the cabbie. “Now we’re talking. I never heard of anything like that. What were the big aliens like? Did they have legs?” They had skin like leather. 
You don’t tell the cabbie about aliens. 
“That’s okay,” he says as he drives on. “Aliens! Gee. Makes sense, I guess. I never heard of nothing like aliens.” Pass the rest of the ride in silence. Come to think of it, I did see some aliens tonight. And they were big. 
“Ah, that’s too bad,” says the cabbie. “Like I said, I never heard of anything like aliens before, but I was getting ready to believe you, especially if they had big, nice legs. Ones like you just described, though? Thanks but no thanks.” Pass the rest of the ride in silence. Come to think of it, the aliens I saw did have big, nice legs. Five of them! 
The cabbie nods excitedly. …and these hollow black eyes. …and that's it. 
The cabbie is rapt with awe. …with fearsome ivory fangs. 
The cabbie signals you to keep going. …and five big, nice legs. …and that's it. 
“Ah, the legs! I can picture it perfectly,” says the cabbie. “Aliens! I never heard of nothing like that before, but I can practically see those legs kicking, so nice and so big!” 
The cab begins to swerve as the cabbie becomes more excited about how big the aliens’ legs were and is no longer paying any attention to the road. I'm telling the truth! The legs were big! Wait, I just remembered! The legs were small! 
“Yes, those big alien legs!” the cabbie shrieks as he completely loses control of the vehicle, which goes careering up a nearby volcano. His last words as the taxi plummets over the verge and into molten lava are, “I believe you!” 
Someone believed that you were abducted by aliens, but at what cost? At the cost of dying in a volcano. Start Over 
“Here we are! Sister’s apartment!” says the cabbie. Great. How much do I owe you? Leave without paying. 
“This one’s on the house!” says the cabbie. Thanks! 
You’re outside your sister’s apartment complex, which is where your sister makes $1,111 per day working from home. 
You super trust and super admire your sister. She is a master of logic and facts, and you know she’ll have a high bar for believing your story. You’ll need to remember a lot of good detail if you hope to convince her, and you’ll need to hurry, since your memory is already feeling a little fuzzy… Text your sister about the fact that you are outside and have seen aliens. Send your sister nine emails about the fact that you are outside and have seen aliens. Text your sister the "alien" emoji, the "abduction" emoji, and the "outside apartment" emoji. 
Your sister answers the door immediately. She invites you to sit down on the couch and hands you a microphone with the local news channel’s logo cube on it and asks you to tell her what happened. I was abducted by aliens, and I am going to tell you all about it. Stand back, my sibling. I am going to convince you that I was abducted by aliens. 
“Aliens, eh?” your sister asks. “Abducted by?” Yes, my sister, they stole me from the atmosphere, and now I'm back. Precisely. Now listen up, my sibling. Here comes the tale. 
“Go ahead then,” says your sister. “Tell me a story about how aliens stole you from the atmosphere.” It began like any other night… It began right away with aliens… It began right after the aliens had left me in the forest and disappeared… 
You begin your story… 
“The alien light dissipated. I was alone in the forest at night. 
I decided to hail a cab, so I stuck out my arm in the universal sign for ‘taxi.’ Immediately, a cab burst from the forest. 
‘Where you headed?’ the cab driver asked.” I got in and told him to go to my sister's house. The cabbie got out of the cab. 
“It was then I remember the cabbie got out of his cab.” Then he got back in the cab. And that's all I remember. 
“So,” says your sister. “If I have your story right, you hailed a cab in the forest, and at some point the driver got out of the vehicle, and that’s all you remember.” Exactly. There's more to the story. Let me start over. 
“The next thing I knew, he was back in the cab. 
‘Where you headed?’ he asked me again.” I told him to go to my sister's house. He got out of the cab again. 
“I believe you about the driver getting out of the car, but I don’t think you saw any aliens,” says your sister. “I’m sorry, but that’s just how I feel.” 
Your sister doesn’t believe that you were abducted by aliens. You have failed. Start Over 
“The cabbie floored it, and pretty soon we were driving through the city on the way to my sister’s house, which is where you live.” We arrived, and I thanked the cabbie for his service. 
“When we arrived, I got out of the cab. The cabbie and I pointed at each other and waved goodbye in silence for three minutes.” And that's the end of my story. 
“Well, it certainly sounds like you took a taxi from the forest to my apartment, but I’m sorry to say I’m not convinced that you saw any aliens,” says your sister. “Is that really the whole story?” Yes, that's it. There was more. 
“Then I don’t believe you saw any aliens.” 
Ouch. You really bungled the story about how you were abducted by aliens. You are a miserable bard of the supernatural, and your sister didn’t believe you at all. You have failed. Start Over 
Your sister settles in as you begin your alien testimony… 
“It began like any other night. I thought it was Guy Fawkes Night, so I was in the forest setting off fireworks by myself.” I would light the firework, run back to safety, look up, and… 
“ Boom! Good riddance, Sir Fawkes!” It was so much fun, I decided to light another firework. I wasn't having fun, but I decided to light another firework. 
“I lit the firework, stepped back, and looked up. I expected to see a sparkling skyrocket. What I saw was…” A sparkling skyrocket, just as I had expected. A strange light in the sky. 
“Yes, it was a skyrocket. My expectation was on the money. 
I prepared to launch another firework into the sky. I loaded it up, sprinted back to safety, and looked to the sky again, this time expecting to see the gorgeous blue and purple firework known as the Butcher’s Delight…” And the Butcher's Delight it was. And that's when it happened. 
“I was right again. In the clear sky above me, I saw the firework called the Butcher’s Delight. 
I set up the last firework, drew a match, and lit the fuse. It was a quick fuse, so the firework had already launched by the time I turned around and looked up, thinking I would see the unmistakeable multicolored burst of the Salute to James Buchanan firework. But is that what I saw, looking to the skies?” Yes, it was. It was not, for that was when it happened. 
“Yes, my sibling. The Salute to James Buchanan firework exploded as planned. 
I applauded at the fireworks finale, congratulating myself on another successful night of fireworks even as I realized that I had bungled the Guy Fawkes date again.” Then I went home. Then I came right to you. 
“Thank you,” says your sister. ”That was a very nice story about how you set off fireworks in the woods by yourself. And did you see any aliens while you were at it?” Yes. No. 
“Well, I don’t believe you. You only told me about fireworks. I was expecting to hear more about aliens.” 
You have not convinced your sister that you saw aliens. Wait, I didn't tell it right. Start Over 
“Okay,” says your sister. “It’s too bad nothing happened with aliens.” 
You have not convinced her that you were abducted by aliens. Wait, I didn't tell it right. Start Over 
“A strange light appeared in the sky.” I ran, but the strange light followed me. I couldn't escape it. There was a sudden burst of futuristic light. 
“Science enveloped me.” The light only got more futuristic. Then all of a sudden, I was standing on the UFO deck. 
“When the light faded, I noticed that I was on a spaceship. 
This part of the ship was clean and triangular.” I noticed that the spaceship had some sort of artificial gravity. I could tell immediately that the spaceship was in space. 
“Okay, I think I understand that you were on a spaceship,” says your sister. “Get to the aliens, though. How about some aliens in the story? When you were on the spaceship, were there any aliens that you saw?” Yes. I don't know, but my boss from my first job was there. 
“My boss from my first job was there, and he was happy to see me.” My boss said that I was dreaming, and I said “Yes, that seems right.” My boss said that I was dreaming, and I said, "No, that's wrong," but it later turned out that he was right. 
“Hmm,” says your sister. “It sounds to me like instead of encountering aliens, you had a dream about seeing your boss in space. Could that be right?” Yeah, that's definitely right. Wait, I told the story wrong. Let me start over. 
You were trying to get your sister to believe that you had seen aliens, but all you managed to convince her of was that you had a dream about seeing your boss in space. You failed! Start Over 
“There were aliens. A crowd of them. Huge, mighty creatures with skin like leather, hollow black eyes, and fearsome ivory fangs.” The aliens were shouting at me, but I couldn't understand what they were saying. "JENCH CREV AMAMU!" the aliens shouted, but I could not understand. 
“From among the aliens, a bigger alien stepped forth. I immediately realized this was their mayor of the aliens, as the alien was wearing a ceremonial mayoral jacket.” The mayor took out a device. 
“The mayor reached out and put the device over my eyes. 
Suddenly, I could hear everything differently.” The mayor then seemed to speak to me in English. 
“‘Welcome to my UFO,’ said the mayor. ‘You are now wearing language glasses. They allow you to understand anything that we say in our language, but be careful: It doesn’t work the other way around. If you want to learn how to talk like us, you’ll need to visit the Language Room and earn a diploma from the language guide.’” I told the mayor that I understood. I told the mayor that I didn't understand. I asked the mayor to explain who the aliens were and what their purpose was. 
“‘I don’t know what you’re saying, but I’m going to assume you asked who we are and what our purpose is. 
‘To do that, I will need to tell you how the world works. In the universe, there are three kinds of things. First, there is us. We are called people. You can tell we’re people by inspecting our beautiful ivory fangs and big, thick legs. It’s obvious. 
‘Second, there is God. God is special, secret, and far away, and there is only one of him. And we need to find him so that we can hold hands forever. We don’t know where God is, but we are looking for him. 
‘Last, there is rocks. Rocks is everything else. Planets are rocks. Spaceships are rocks. Since you are not a person, you are probably also a rock…unless of course you are God. But that’s very unlikely and illegal.’” I asked the mayor how to find out if I am a rock or if I am God. 
“‘I still can’t understand you, but here’s the deal. I’m going to retreat to the observation deck and look at the majesty of space for a while. Go to the Language Room, learn our language, then come find me and we’ll see if we can find a use for you.’” The mayor left, and I was alone with the crowd of aliens. 
“In the spaceship’s deck, the crowd of aliens was talking excitedly about God and about the kinds of dances they would do together when they found him at last.” I left the deck area and went south into the hallway. 
“In the Language Room, a man was standing on a small, circular stage. 
Above him hung a giant banner that read ‘LANGUAGE TUTORIAL FOR ENGLISH SPEAKERS.’” He began the tutorial. 
“‘Welcome to this free alien-language tutorial for English speakers!’ said the man. ‘If you are viewing this in hologram form, it means our captors have determined I am no longer necessary, and that they have mercifully killed me and freed me from my didactic prison. Right on!’” I waved my hand through him to confirm that he was a hologram. I continued watching the presentation. 
“He was not a hologram. 
‘Ha! Not yet! I wish!’ he said. ‘Please sit down, and let’s get this presentation over with!’” I sat back down and kept watching the presentation. 
“‘Let’s begin with the most basic grammatical element of the language: the word CREV,’ the man began. 
He gestured in the air beside him, where the word CREV appeared in red light. 
‘CREV is a verb that roughly translates as “to be about to point at something.” If you want to communicate effectively with the aliens, it’s an extremely important word to know.’” "CREV," I managed to say. "CREB," I blurted stupidly. 
“‘For example, to announce that I am ready to point at something, I would begin with the word AMAMU, which means “me,” then I would say, “CREV,” then I would say what I am pointing at.’ 
‘Like this: AMAMU CREV MERYL STREEP.’” I looked where the man was pointing. I knew then that the man was pointing at Meryl Streep. 
“‘Hello!’ said Meryl Streep. ‘I am definitely a hologram.’” "AMAMU CREV MERYL STREEP," I said as I pointed at the Meryl Streep hologram. 
“‘Very good. The next word we’re going to learn is important, but be aware that it is very politically charged. I am of course talking about the controversial word CREVV, and you must be very careful with it. It’s a slur that means “bad alien” and is extremely insulting to use in any situation but language tutorials.’” "CREVV," I said. I nodded solemnly. I asked the teacher for an example of the bad word in context. 
“‘Here is an example of CREVV used in English context: Oh God. The aliens are killing me. Why did I say CREVV? Why didn’t someone teach me not to say CREVV? I shouldn’t have said CREVV.’” I said, "Okay." I said nothing. 
“‘CREVV,’ I said. 
No sooner had the word left my lips than a fearsome ivory fang had pierced my vulnerable stomach and sent everything inside me all over the place.” I was dead. 
You wrap your story about the aliens 
“Ah. So…you died?” your sister asks. Yeah. Wait, I didn't tell the story right. Let me start over. 
“Hmmm. I…doubt it,” says your sister. 
You told a story about how you got abducted by aliens and died, but your sister doesn’t seem convinced. 
No one believed you! You failed. Wait, I didn't tell the story right. Start Over 
“‘At this point, you’re almost conversant in the language. You just have a couple more words to get through. I am now teaching you the word JENCH. It means “God.”’” I said, "JENCH." 
“Finally, ‘The word BRIDE is the equivalent of the English word “um.” When you say the word BRIDE, it means that you have forgotten how to speak, and you are trying to remember.’” I said, "BRIDE." 
“‘This concludes this first and only module of alien language for English beginners. Thank you for learning with me. Get out there, start speaking the language, and remember: If I’m not already dead, please find someone who will kill me!’ 
With that, the teacher handed me a diploma with some inscrutable symbols on it and ushered me out of the Language Room.” I left the Language Room and went back out to the ship hallway. I went east. 
“I was in the ship corridor to the south of the first room.” I went north.