Email ‘The Social Network’ is an award-winning film about Facebook written by Aaron Sorkin. It is the story of how the gorgeous Mark Zuckerberg stole the incredible website Facebook.com from the incredible, wonderful, and intelligent and horrendous Winklevoss twins. When you are done watching ‘The Social Network,’ you will be curious about many things from the movie, and zero seconds after the end credits roll, you will begin using Google to find answers to your ‘Social Network’-related questions. How many of these things did you Google immediately after watching ‘The Social Network’? Take this quiz to find out! 1. Please check off all of the phrases you Googled immediately after you finished watching The Social Network : did mark zuckerberg teach aaron sorkin to swim as a reward for making the social network? Should Winklevoss Twins actors eat Winklevoss Twins real? is it legal to sue Mark Zuckerberg if my cousin bit my thumb off while the social network was playing in a different room of the house? mark zuckerberg hair for sale (donkey food) feed mark zuckerberg hair to donkey Will Mark Zuckerberg’s hair kill my donkey or make my donkey louder? foods that will make jesse eisenberg a baby again Jesse Eisenberg (infant at last once more) again baby Jesse Eisenberg Facebook Aaron Sorkin + yelling (jail for sorkin) did aaron sorkin call the sun his wife? Aaron Sorkin says “the sun is my wife” (video) aaron sorkin pointing to the sun and saying “there goes my wife the sun, she bit me” What is the name of the left Winklevoss twin? are the winklevoss twins allowed to hide from each other? if the winklevoss twins hide from each other are the police legally required to go to aaron sorkin’s house and cut him in half with a sword and then say, “we did this because the winklevoss twins hid from each other?” did my wife switch religions while I was watching the social network? wife religion different after the social network? new god for wife after Facebook movie? wife neglects CHRIST because of aaron sorkin windowless church of unknown purpose becomes my wife’s home after Zuckerberg flick? jesse eisenberg on a ladder EYES OPEN Mark Zuckerberg + Edward Snowden are father and son? does peter thiel have a Jackal noise inside of him? peter thiel haunted by jackals? Jackal God chases Peter Thiel through the grocery store? peter thiel calling Terminex to rid house of immortal jackals (audio only) Jesse Eisenberg gold chain allergy sequel to the social network is coming out during which Olympics? Pics of Winklevoss twins breaking a wishbone Winklevoss twins buying huge bag of wishbones no meat (video + commentary) Mark Zuckerberg ultimate roller rink disappearance 2 guyz tiny eyez Winklevoss twins switch brains every time they shake hands? which Winklevoss man is going to heaven How Good Are You At Using Google To Find Out About Gorgeous Zuckerberg And His Movie? Results for How Many Of These Things Did You Google Immediately After Watching ‘The Social Network’? Via Columbia Pictures You’ve Never Google Anything After Watching 'The Social Network'! I have news that will make Grief your emperor: You do not ever Google even one thing after you watch 'The Social Network.' When the movie is finished you think, “I have solved all of the riddles of this film, and there are no further mysteries about gorgeous Zuckerberg that I need to solve.” Then you go to sleep and dream the indecipherable nightmares of the willfully ignorant. When the universe starts over again and you are born for the seventh time, please try to Google more things after you watch 'The Social Network.' Share Your Results