Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Congresswoman Carolyn Cheeks Kilpatrick was a member of Congress for 14 years, serving Michigan’s 13th Congressional District. Early in her career, she was selected to serve on the Defense Sub-Committee of Appropriations, and became the first African American to do so. This committee (on paper) has jurisdiction over the budget for the United States Department of Defense, it’s the largest appropriations bill in the United States Federal Government. She was also a board member of the United States Air Force Academy from 2003-2007.   She has a long list of very significant accomplishments and achievements while serving as a member of Congress, and you can read about them HERE . Currently, she is the founder of and managing partner of J & A Global Partners, LLC. She had this to say about the UFO/extraterrestrial topic at the citizens hearing for disclosure last year (more information on the hearing later in the article). “We’ve all been in congress long enough to know something about this world and our country and how it operates. Everything that you’ve said here, this congressperson knows it to be true, from people we know and things we’ve done in our own lives. The President and the military, there’s always a friction there, governments or military, who has the power? I think it’s important that we work with the foreign governments, there’s been 10 or 15 already identified who have acknowledged this existence. I want to be a part of that, I want to go and I want to see, so I’m presenting myself for that, I want to do that.” Please start the video at 1:04.21 to see the statement.   Below is a statement regarding UFO technology, the propulsion systems they use and how it’s quite clear that they don’t burn any fossil fuels. At the event where these words were given, there was plenty of information presented regarding the involvement of private contractors and industry, and how some of this technology threatens those industries. Related CE Articles: FREE ENERGY “The public private partnerships that I mentioned the other day have to do it. Once upon a time this country had horse and buggies, we moved to cars and now it’s moving to something else. When you talk about oil, gas and coal, yeah that’s the money, and it’s about money and power, but who’s to say that we can’t transition so we faze out of oil, gas and coal. I don’t think the UFO issue is separate from this.” Related CE Article: The Black Budget As far as foreign governments already acknowledging this existence, it’s true. Mexico, for example, has released a number of files documenting various UFO incursions. They’ve even released video footage of military jets scrambled to take a closer look. Below are just a few examples, amongst many: “The nations of the world are currently working together in the investigation of the UFO phenomenon. There is an international exchange of data. Maybe when this group of nations acquires more precise and definite information, it will be possible to release the news to the world” – General Carlos Castro Cavero, Spanish Air Force General (1976) One case in particular I’d like to start out with is the incident over Tehran, Iran. This incident occurred on the night of September 18th, 1976. A four page U.S. Defense Intelligence Agency and NSA report describes the encounter in detail. (source) (source) Furthermore, both of the pilots involved discussed the event years later. Both of the F-4 interceptor pilots reported seeing the object visually, it was also tracked on their airborne radar. Both planes experienced critical instrumentation and electronics go offline at a distance of twenty-five miles from the object. Here is an excerpt from the report: “As the F-4 approached a range of 25 nautical miles it lost all instrumentation and communications. When the F-4 turned away from the object and apparently was no longer a threat to it, the aircraft regained all instrumentation and communications. Another brightly lighted object came out of the original object. The second object headed straight toward the F4. ” (source) (source) Perhaps the most dramatic of all were two encounters that year on December 16th by the Chilean Air Force: “Two pilots on a training mission, each flying an F5 fighter aircraft, tracked the object on their airborne radar. It gave a return equal to ten or more aircraft carriers-except this object was in the air, not floating on the water. Each pilot assumed his radar equipment was faulty, until he learned that the other pilot was also getting the same return. Not only this, but ground radar from a nearby airport also picked up the object and confirmed its huge size. The pilots also saw the object with their own eyes. One pilot later said that at a distance of twenty miles, it looked “like a plantain banana swathed in smoke.” The pilots were frightened, having no missiles or weapons. As they approached the massive object, which had been motionless all this while, it took off at an unimaginable speed. All at once, it vanished from the three radar screens.”(1) Related CE Article: This Is What Happens When A UFO Is Tracked On Military Radar About The Hearing From April 29 to May 3, 2013 researchers, activists and military/agency/political witnesses representing ten countries gave testimony in Washington, DC to six former members of the United States Congress about events and evidence indicating an extraterrestrial presence engaging the human race and the planet. The Citizen Hearing on Disclosure was a very large event in terms of size, scope and the involvement of former members of the US Congress. With over 30 hours of testimony from 40 witnesses over five days the event was the most concentrated body of evidence regarding the extraterrestrial subject ever presented to the press and the general public at one time. You can find out more about the hearing HERE . Many clips are also available on youtube. We Are Not Alone There is an overwhelming amount of evidence suggesting that we are not alone, and this idea continues to gain more and more popularity as we move towards 2015. For example, NASA and the Library of Congress recently gathered together scientists, theologians and philosophers to discuss how they are going to prepare the world for extraterrestrial contact. You can read more about that HERE . CE has covered this topic for quite sometime now. To see our most recent posts on the UFO/extraterrestrial subject, visit our exopolitics section by clicking HERE . Sources: Most of them are embedded within the article (1) Huneeus, J, Antonio, “A Chilean Overview,” MUFON UFO Journal, 6/86; Huneeus, J. Antonio, “A Historical Survey of UFO Cases in Chilie,” MUFON 1987 International Symposium Proceedings ( MUFON, 1987.) Dolan, Richard. UFOs For the 21st Century Mind: New York: Richard Dolan Press, 2014 
The Sacred Science follows eight people from around the world, with varying physical and psychological illnesses, as they embark on a one-month healing journey into the heart of the Amazon jungle. 
You can watch this documentary film FREE for 10 days by clicking here. 
"If “Survivor” was actually real and had stakes worth caring about, it would be what happens here, and “The Sacred Science” hopefully is merely one in a long line of exciting endeavors from this group." - Billy Okeefe, McClatchy Tribune