advertisement - learn more Prescription drugs are the 4th leading cause of death in the world. If that’s not enough to make you shriek, I’m not sure what will. The pharmaceutical industry is committing a silent holocaust around the globe. It works like this: People are sick because they aren’t getting proper nutritients. Then they are covering up their sickness with a doctor-prescribed pill. But this is causing some serious side effects, leading their doctors to prescribe more pills to conceal those side effects. Rinse and repeat. The following is a list of the 7 most dangerous and heavily promoted prescription drugs with some natural alternatives. 1) Prednisone or Cortisone What’s the deal? U sed to treat rheumatoid arthritis, lupus, asthma, allergies and many other conditions. Corticosteroids mimic the effects of hormones your body produces naturally in your adrenal glands, which sit on top of your kidneys. When prescribed in doses that exceed your body’s usual levels, corticosteroids suppress inflammation. What are the side effects? High blood sugar, which can trigger or worsen diabetes Increased risk of infections Thinning bones (osteoporosis) and fractures Suppressed adrenal gland hormone production Thin skin, easy bruising and slower wound healing Alternatives: Raw whole food diet. Read about Maya’s story HERE. 2) Methotrexate ­& Other Chemotherapeutic Agents What’s the deal? For the most part, Methotrexate is used alone or together with other medicines to treat several types of cancer such as breast, head and neck, lung, blood, bone, lymph node and uterus cancers. What are the side effects? Cause fetal death and congenital anomalies. Liver and Kidney toxicity. Lung disease ­ which can be fatal. Reacts with NSAID’s ­ which can be fatal. May cause intestinal bleeding and ulceration. Depresses the immune system. Alternatives: Read more HERE . 3) Coumadin or Warfarin What’s the deal? Anticoagulant (blood thinner) which prevents the formation and migration of blood clots. What are the side effects? Haemorrhage (bleeding) Alternatives: Vitamin C – 1,000 mgs. daily . Vitamin C coats the red blood cell (RBC’s) walls and prevents them from breaking and bleeding. However, too much Vitamin C inhibits the absorption of calcium. Vitamin E ­- 400 IU. Vitamin E coats RBC’s and binds collagen in blood vessels to prevent bleeding and strokes. OPC 165 (all natural anti-oxidant blend) . 4) Cholesterol Lowering Drugs ­ What’s the deal? There are multiple types. Some of these drugs ( Atromid and Lopid) work by absorbing bile acids which are produced from cholesterol in the intestinal tract and cause them to be excreted, thereby lowering the levels of cholesterol circulating in the blood. Statin drugs reduce production of cholesterol in the liver and alter the way in which LDL cholesterol enters the cells. What are the side effects? Myositis – inflammation of the muscles. Rhabdomyolysis (rare) – W ith this condition, muscles all over the body become painful and weak. The severely damaged muscles release proteins into the blood that collect in the kidneys. The kidneys can become damaged trying to eliminate a large amount of muscle breakdown caused by statin use. This can ultimately lead to kidney failure. Alternatives: Fish, whole foods – oats, nuts, beans, spinach, avocado. 5) Prozac (anti-depressants) What’s the deal? Prozac, Zoloft, Paxil, Lovan and Luvox belong to a class of drugs which alter the mechanism that balances levels of the neurotransmitter serotonin in the brain. Serotonin affects mood, agitation, anxiety and sleep. These drugs mock the re-uptake or removal of serotonin by nerve cells in the brain, thus leaving more serotonin to bind to the receptor sites. This has been shown to alter mood and behavior. What are the side effects? The FDA has admitted that antidepressants can worsen depression and suicidal symptoms in some patients. Other side effects include: nausea increased appetite and weight gain loss of sexual desire and other sexual problems, such as erectile dysfunction and decreased orgasm fatigue and drowsiness