The FBI recently decided to reopen their investigation of Hillary Clinton after more emails from her private email server during her time as head of the State Department were leaked.
Senior news editor and writer for NBC Bradd Jaffy , among others, just tweeted the document hours ago, showing the letter to members of Congress and outlining how the FBI is investigating additional emails.
“In connection with an unrelated case, the FBI has learned of the existence of emails that appear pertinent to the investigation,” Comey wrote to the chairmen. “I am writing to inform you that the investigative team briefed me on this yesterday, and I agreed that the FBI should take appropriate investigative steps designed to allow investigators to review these emails to determine whether they contain classified information, as well as to assess their importance to our investigation.” 
You can read the full letter here .
 

The FBI still has yet to assess the importance of the material to see if any classified material was leaked, and if so, how significant it was.
Comey has also been criticized by lawmakers and others who are saying that the investigation has been downplayed and mishandled.
There are also some other strange allegations emerging. According to a report by the Wall Street Journal , Virginia Governor Terry McAuliffe sent more than half a million dollars in campaign funds and material support to the wife of an FBI official who was a part of the investigation of Hillary Clinton’s personal email server. It was recently revealed that Clinton performed all of her business as Secretary of State from this server, including sharing classified information.
You can read more about that here .
Why Does This Matter? With all the information that has come out recently exposing the truth behind Western politics, it’s shedding light on the fact we are being misled and that there are extreme amounts of corruption in politics. Politicians are being used by big corporations and banks to push elitist agendas.
This is a time for reflection for us all as the external happenings of our world show us what is really going on. As things become more obvious it gives us a chance to see it VERY clearly -it’s happening for a reason. Is it time to discuss taking a different approach to our world? I think so.
This is a great quote that fits perfectly here:
“The conscious and intelligent manipulation of the organized habits and opinions of the masses is an important element in democratic society . Those who manipulate this unseen mechanism of society constitute an invisible government which is the true ruling power of our country. We are governed, our minds are molded, our tastes formed, our ideas suggested, largely by men we have never heard of.” 
– Edward Bernays, The Father of Public Relations, Propaganda , 1928 
What Are We Focusing On? Every four years we turn our attention to the presidential race, while the fact remains, as Bernie Sanders told us earlier in the year, that “no matter who is elected to be president, that person will not be able to address the enormous problems facing the working families of our country. They will not be able to succeed because of the power of corporate America, the power of Wall Street, and the power of campaign donors is so great that no president alone can stand up to them.” ( source )
Instead of “standing up to them,” they simply do what they are told. One example would be the transcripts of Hillary Clinton’s paid speeches to Goldman Sachs .
Politicians seem to now function as mere frontmen for these corporations, the ones to answer our questions, alleviate our fears, and ultimately, bear the brunt of our anger.
But at the end of the day there is something we must not forget:
“ a power has risen up in the government greater than the people themselves, consisting of many, and various, and powerful interests, combined into one mass, and held together by the cohesive power of the vast surplus in the banks.” John C. Calhoun ( source )
Shadow Government It’s no longer a secret that the global consolidation of power lies in the hands of very few — a small group of people and the corporations they run, all held together by the world of finance — or that this few controls every aspect of our lives.
Below is a great clip from the Thrive documentary by Foster Gamble, heir to the Proctor Gamble corporation. He was groomed for the establishment, but chose a different path.
These are the ones we need to shed more light on if we are going to turn things around. The power these corporations and banks have is unacceptable, and politics, at the end of the day, although a good tool that can be used to wake up the masses, is a distraction and waste of time.
It takes the power out of our hands, and places it in the hands of others — while we watch what they do with it and hope it benefits us.
Awareness! This is about awareness. Awareness so we can begin having discussions about what to do next and pulling our consciousness away from the illusion that is before. It is becoming more and more obvious so we can let it go.
It’s fitting to leave you with this last quote from Theodore Roosevelt. Combined with all of the evidence, it’s interesting to think about.
“Political parties exist to secure responsible government and to execute the will of the people.
From these great tasks both of the old parties have turned aside. Instead of instruments to promote the general welfare, they have become the tools of corrupt interests which use them impartially to serve their selfish purposes. Behind the ostensible government sits enthroned an invisible government, owing no allegiance and acknowledging no responsibility to the people.
To destroy this invisible government, to dissolve the unholy alliance between corrupt business and corrupt politics is the first task of the statesmanship of the day.” ( source )
