  Genetically modified (GM) crops have infiltrated human food and animal feed in increasing amounts since they were commercially released in 1996. It is now normal for a large portion of pigs to have a complete GM diet. Human beings have become desensitized to inhumane animal practices. Not only do we consume the flesh of a living, breathing, feeling, intelligent sentient and loving being, we do it in mass amounts, and do it after they have been fed with feed that contributes in making human beings sick as well. It’s no coincidence that the same financial institutions that hold majority stock in both the food/ biotech industry also hold major stock in the pharmaceutical/health industry. GMO testing on animals is inhumane, and is really not needed with all of the evidence already available to show how GMOs are very hazardous to human health. advertisement - learn more A study by scientist Judy Carman, PHD that was recently published in the peer reviewed journal Organic Systems outlines the effects of a diet mixed with GMO feed for pigs, and how it is a cause for concern when it comes to health (1). Scientists randomized and fed isowean pigs either a mixed GM soy and GM corn (maize) diet for approximately 23 weeks (nothing out of the ordinary for most pigs in the United States), which is unfortunately the normal lifespan of a commercial pig from weaning to slaughter. Equal numbers of male and female pigs were present in each group. The GM diet was associated with gastric and uterine differences in pigs. GM pigs had uteri that were 25% heavier than non-GM fed pigs. GM-fed pigs had a higher rate of severe stomach inflammation with a rate of 32% compared to 125 of non-GM fed pigs. The study concluded that pigs fed a GMO diet exhibited a heavier uteri and a higher rate of severe stomach inflammation than pigs who weren’t fed a GMO diet. Because the use of GMO feed for livestock and humans is so widespread, this is defiantly another cause for concern when it comes to GMO consumption. Humans have a similar gastrointestinal tract to pigs, and these GM crops are consumed widely by people, especially in the United States. Although GM fed pigs seem to be the norm across North America, it’s unnecessary to use animals for testing. Although animal testing does provide information, it is simply not needed, and extremely inhumane. Again, we do not need any more studies to show that GMOs are harmful to the health of all. It’s not natural, world hunger and food shortage is a scam. We could easily feed the entire planet, and have multiple ways to do it. There should be no debate on the subject. There is a worldwide genocide happening right under our nose, if we don’t speak up for these animals, who will? How can we consume these beings? It seems we have drifted so far away from our souls voice. How can we feed them GMO feed, and then feed that to ourselves? Any being foreign to this world would have a hard time looking upon it without feeling sick and hurt. We kill billions of animals for consumption every year. You can read more about the worldwide genocide on animals here . GMOs are gaining a lot of attention worldwide. The chinese government recently destroyed multiple shipments of GM corn, you can read more about that here . Japan and South Korea rejected U.S. wheat found to be polluted with GMOs, you can read about that here and here . Recently, a hidden viral gene that’s harmful to human health was discovered in GMO crops, you can read more about that here . Scientists also discovered that Bt toxins found in Monsanto crops damage red blood cells, which you can read about here . Feel free to browse through our site for more information on GMOs. All of these studies show that when it comes to GMOs the body is not meant to take them in. Much Love.