  How often do we go about our days feeling things within our body and trying to determine their cause, yet never really finding an answer? We might go to a doctor and explain what’s going on. We might complain of tightness in our shoulders, pain in our knees, or discomfort in our abdomen. There’s no doubt that sometimes these problems are simply the result of having eaten the wrong thing, or moved the wrong way, but it is also important to consider our state of mind and our emotions, and how these translate into our physicality.   We are energy beings, this isn’t some new-age spiritual concept. Our body has electricity that runs through it and it flows based on the cleanliness of the paths in which it travels. This is the premise behind meridian points or acupuncture points made popular in Chinese medicine. So if we are energy and we need our energy to be flowing well throughout our body to stay healthy, is it possible for us to have blockages? Can experiences we have create dormant or ‘stuck’ energy within the body? 
The illustration below is a general depiction of how our experiences, emotions, or beliefs can get energetically stored within the body. As “out there” as this may seem to some of us, it’s really a simple concept when you begin to understand the fact that our thoughts, emotions, and bodies are all energy related. And yes, allow me to be the first to say that not every single disease or ailment is going to be directly related to some emotional distress. However, experiencing illness or pain always offers an opportunity for us to take a look at what might be playing out. After all, what’s the harm in exploring your emotions and getting to the bottom of how you might feel about something? Next time you have a pain somewhere, notice tight shoulders, etc., take a moment and see if any of these can trigger some internal reflection. Of course, you can always go to a practitioner to find out what might be going on physically as well, but I believe the emotional and spiritual side of our health is just as important as the physical, it’s just been greatly avoided because we tend to set aside personal development for the quick fix. Keep reflection simple. You can just ask yourself questions about what you might be feeling in that area. The first step is to rid the doubt you might have about getting to the bottom of the feeling, and the next important step is to be open and honest with yourself. You can also have someone act as a sounding board for you if it’s easier that way. Again, it is important to be open and honest with this. When you start to figure out what you are feeling in those areas, question how it got there and why you feel that way, and then ultimately accept it for what it is. After you accept the feeling, know that it’s all been an experience, and now there’s a chance for you to move beyond it.   Once you are aware of how you are feeling, you’ve already taken a big step. The issue will not have the same power and you can now choose how you feel about whatever was creating the blockage. At the end of the day, the body can be a great tool for showing you what you might be holding onto emotionally, energetically, and spiritually. With an open mind, personal honesty and reflection, you have the tools to get to the bottom of your issue and leave it behind for good. 
The Sacred Science follows eight people from around the world, with varying physical and psychological illnesses, as they embark on a one-month healing journey into the heart of the Amazon jungle. 
You can watch this documentary film FREE for 10 days by clicking here. 
"If “Survivor” was actually real and had stakes worth caring about, it would be what happens here, and “The Sacred Science” hopefully is merely one in a long line of exciting endeavors from this group." - Billy Okeefe, McClatchy Tribune