  The “Anchorage” Incident is a well known UFO event involving a veteran Japanese airline pilot who saw three UFOs following his 747 aircraft carrier for over 400 miles. One of the objects was much larger than the 747, while the other two were smaller. The crewmen of JAL Flight 1628 reported seeing flashing lights trailing their jet to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). FAA officials confirmed the conclusions drawn from the controller who handled Flight 1628 on his radar. His conclusion was that the aircrafts were unidentified. Air Force officials at the Alaska Air Command also said their radar picked up something near the JAL plane. The United States Air Force scrambled a jet to get a closer look at the object. This incident occurred in 1986. It’s now 2013 and high ranking credible witness testimonies as well as officially released government documentation confirm that UFOs are a real phenomenon and should be taken very seriously by people in high power. Three letter agencies have also released previously highly classified documentation. The documents indicate that UFOs are constantly tracked on military radar and jets are often scrambled so pilots can take a closer look. You can see an example of these files by clicking on the number following this sentence -this one is from the National Security Agency (NSA) (1) . The FAA even has protocol for UFO sightings as they are now very common ( 2 ), they even have a data collection centre -Bigelow Aerospace Advanced Space Studies ( 3 ). You can browse through our web site, more specifically the science/tech/alternative news sections if you would like more information about the UFO/Extraterrestrial phenomenon. This is retired FA Senior Division Chief, John Callahan. Check out his testimony below given to Dr. Steven Greer. He was directly involved with this incident, it is amazing to hear his story and the events that transpired because of it. The UFO phenomenon is really nothing to fear. Humanity has been progressing in its understanding of other concepts of reality that do not fit the ‘accepted’ framework. We often see a lot of fear mongering when it comes to extraterrestrials and our perception about extraterrestrial life has been largely influenced by entertainment corporations. As we continue to wake up, transform and grow into our adulthood, new possibilities and discoveries are available to us. More people on planet Earth are aware that love, peace, cooperation and understanding is necessary if the human race would like to move forward. The same corporations and people that own the energy, health, money supply and other major industries that govern our every day lives, do not have humanities best interests in mind. They are also responsible for covering up the UFO phenomenon. Anything that has the potential to assist us in growing our understanding about reality, or allowing us to move past our archaic, harmful ways of operating on planet Earth will be concealed. 
There are breakthroughs available to those who can remove one of truths protective layers – Neil Armstrong Sources: