
Posted by Matthew Bernstein | Nov 2, 2016 | American Strength Washington, Not Russia, Was Responsible! 
If you are been paying attention to what the Democrats are saying this election in terms of the hacks, they will tell you that it’s all part of a plot that involves Donald Trump and Russia. Every top Democrat from Hillary Clinton to Barack Obama has argued that. 
They have been saying this ever since the first hacks on the Democratic National Committee happened back in July. And they have continued that claim with every hack that has happened since. Most recently they have been saying that the hacks on Clinton’s campaign chairman, John Podesta, were part of yet another Russian hack. 
They have claimed that the hacks were done in order to influence the election in favor of Trump. Not everyone believes that lie. In fact there are people out there that think that the source of the hack has come from the United States government. 
One person that believes that is former British ambassador Craig Murray. He says that the source of the Podesta leaks was a Washington insider rather than someone from Russia. That would mean that Clinton’s campaign is continuing to make a false claim on a foreign country! 
Murray told Sputnik, “The source of these emails and leaks has nothing to do with Russia at all. I discovered what the source was when I attended the Sam Adam’s whistleblower award in Washington. The source of these emails comes from within official circles in Washington DC. You should look to Washington not to Moscow.” 
That means that there is someone in Washington that is doing what he or she can to end the corruption of the Clintons. And yet her camp continues to claim that someone within Russia did it. Because that is a phenomenal way to create peace between two nations that have nuclear weapons. Someone In Washington Is Trying To Make Sure Hillary Doesn’t Win 
But that wasn’t the only thing that Murray went on to destroy. He went on to blast the Democrats other narrative that WikiLeaks is a source for Russia. He has said that such claims are “designed to divert attention from the content of the material.” That means that they are hiding something if they are spending this much time trying to change the story. 
WikiLeaks also decided to mock the Clinton campaign’s literal obsession with conspiracy theories with a tweet. They said, “No link between Trump & Russia. No link between Assange & Russia. But Podesta & Clinton involved in selling 20% of US uranium to Russia.” 
This tweet was in reference to the fact that the FBI found nothing of substance that connected Donald Trump to Russia. They literally said that he had “no clear link to Russia.” So once again, the Democrats attempt to say something like that is proven false. 
That also means that if the Democrats continue to blame Trump for this supposed Russian hack on their servers, then they are definitely hiding something. Because the FBI has cleared Trump of any connection to Russia and now there is a former British ambassador that has said that the hacks were coming from someone located in Washington. 
And there are other claims to back that up. There was a YouTube video that was released and has gone viral. In it, former Deputy Assistant Secretary of State Steve Pieczenik is talking about how there are people in the United States government are doing what they can to prevent Clinton from becoming president of the United States. 
He has said that members of the United States government, including the FBI and the CIA, have “initiated a counter-coup through Julian Assange and WikiLeaks in order to stop Hillary Clinton from becoming president of the United States.” Pieczenik has also said that Assange has released “emails that we gave to him in order to undermine Hillary and Bill Clinton.” 
That is two former high ranking members of their respective governments saying that the leak has come from Washington and not Russia like the Democrats want you to believe. But it goes even further than that. What Murray has said is true. They are doing whatever they can to have the people of the United States not look at those emails that were released. The Democrats Continue To Blame Russia For The Hacks. Because That Is A Great Foreign Policy Tactic 
That is because those emails have shown that the Democrats are engaging in some highly illegal activity. From all the leaks that we have seen, the Democrats have engaged in election rigging, pay-to-play operations, and cheating in several different debates. But of course when you try and confront them on this, they will attempt to say that Russia was behind it or that Trump was behind it. 
One of the excuses that they have also given has come from interim chairwoman of the Democratic National Committee Donna Brazile. During the second hack of the DNC back in July she attempted to scare people from reading the hacked emails by saying that they could possibly be infected with malware . Really? If you are making this big an attempt to stop people from reading them, then you are obviously hiding something! 
Of course Brazile was mentioned in those WikiLeaks emails as well. She was guilty of giving Clinton a question that was going to appear in a town hall. And when someone called her out on it, Brazile attempted to say that she was being “ persecuted .” It’s not persecution if the answer is right in front of you! You were literally doing what you could to help out Clinton as much as possible. 
Share this article to show that there are people out there that believe that the hacks on the Democratic Party are coming from Washington itself rather than Russia. And considering that the Democrats continue to blame Russia for the hacks means that they are just damaging the foreign relationships even more. 
That is not something that the United States can afford anymore. We need people that are going to work on making our relationships with foreign governments better not worse. We also need people that are going to lead the people and not have to answer to more corruption charges. This is why we need Donald Trump. 