Posted by Matthew Bernstein | Nov 18, 2016 | American Strength He Wasn’t Happy At The Latest Bill That Was Passed 
As we all know the country has spoken and Donald Trump is set to be the 45 th president of the United States. He won the election fair and square, despite what the whiny liberals have to say about it. Of course that means that with his victory, President Obama is on his way out. 
We are literally two months away from having President Obama leave the White House. That is something that should be applauded, considering the destruction that he has caused the country over the past eight years. But there was a fear that some Republicans had regarding the time leftover in office. 
Considering the fact that Obama is leaving, there were fears that he was going to pass some legislation that would affect the country and be nearly impossible for Trump to repeal. These were going to be called the “Midnight Rules” and it was going to ensure that Trump was going to have some issues before tackling the issues he wanted to tackle the most. 
Except that fear is NO MORE. The House of Representatives passed legislation, by a margin of 240-179, allows Congress to undo any of the last-minute rules and regulations that were going to be put on the books before President Obama leaves office. 
The bill’s sponsor, Representative Darrell Issa, a Republican out of California and the former chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, had this to say about the bill. “This bipartisan bill is about reviving the separation of powers to ensure our laws are written by the representatives we actually vote for – not unelected and unaccountable bureaucrats who are on their way out the door.” 
This was put into place to make sure that Obama doesn’t try to sneak any last minute laws by that would further his agenda. Which means that any law that he thinks is going to get through is going to get shut down by the GOP controlled Congress. Obama’s Plans To Push His Agenda Through Last Second Have Been Just Squashed 
“Presidents of both parties have made habit of enacting scores of last-minute regulations, with little oversight, to sneak in as much of their agenda as possible before the clock runs out on their time in office.” And there is still so much more that Obama wants to put in. After all, he was in favor of adding as many Syrian refugees as possible. 
“The bill helps ensure this President, and any future president, will be held in check and that their policies have the proper level of scrutiny by both Congress and the American people. I’m pleased to see the House pass this important measure and look forward to its quick passage by our colleagues in the Senate.” 
This was an important bill because Obama has shown that he is willing to undermine the Constitution. He has done so repeatedly, including one of the more recent examples being the $1.7 billion that he sent to Iran as part of the ransom payment for four American hostages. 
And it wasn’t just members of Congress that were excited about this bill. FreedomWorks CEO Adam Brandon was also pleased with the House vote. He committed his Washington-based logistics and policy hub for conservative activists to working with Capitol Hill conservatives in making sure that law-making authority returns to Congress. 
“The Obama administration’s regulatory agenda has been damaging to the economy and the destructive to separation of powers in Article I of the Constitution.” He is completely right. The Constitution ensures that there is supposed to be a separation of powers between the branches and make sure that one of the branches isn’t more powerful than the other. Obama Continues To Try And Destroy Our Constitution 
Obama has proved over and over again that he wanted to go over the powers of Congress to make sure that his agenda was secure. This includes the fact that he tried to have millions of millions of illegal immigrants granted amnesty so that they were able to stay in the country and possibly vote. 
And they ended up voting! In this last election there were three million illegal immigrants that cast a ballot. That was despite the fact that they weren’t allowed to vote considering that they aren’t legal citizens of the United States! And yet the liberals were all in favor of this because they were all voting for Hillary . Anything to help her out right liberals? 
Not to mention that his ability to go over Congress has corrupted the minds of the younger generation. There have been several petitions out there that wanted to change the very basis of how this country works. First there was a petition that wanted to change the basis of electing the next president. 
And the second petition that was going around included people asking that President Obama go over his Constitutional policies to appoint the next Supreme Court member without the consent of the Senate. Of course that is just another example of people saying that he should do what he can to overthrow the Constitution . 
Share this article with your friends and family to show them that Congress has just passed a law that is going to make it impossible for Obama to implement any of his policies at the last second. This rule is going to make it impossible for him to try and push his agenda. 
This was the necessary change that needed to happen. President Obama has done enough to undermine the Constitution since he first sat in office eight years ago. And now any plans that he had to continue to do so until Trump gets into office have been destroyed.