Hello, Welcome to Teotihuacan Presenting: Streaks of Gold As you can clearly see this is not Teotihuacan but we are very close to it. With places like Puma Punku that have Quick Crete stones that have these shapes in them... And you can clearly see that Ancient Man were telling us in the future that one day would have our green plantations marked by streaks of gold. Obviously being a circuitry board. Our heaven is dependency on technology! This is Teotihuacan People were inspired to build such large and grandiose structures and attribute them to the Sun and the Moon. But why obviously the sun being a life giver is something to honor. But the Moon is a great question. Night is the absence of the Sun and everything depending on the Sun surely would not want to celebrate it's absence. It must be because the Sun was attributed to a great king who sailed across a mighty ocean much like the sun does the sky. And the moon was attributed to a great queen that did the same. And both of them must have proven with great detail. That not only made you believe past all the great technology they brought with them but also believing in them with your heart and soul. That kind of belief transcends time and it also transcends race and species. Those people knew that the moon was not real proof of this is that they symbolize the moon with the crescent moon. If you pay attention at all the moon like god and everything else on the planet snitches what the truth is no matter how good it is at hiding it. And the crescent moon is a snitch that it can cloak and uncloak. Otherwise why would anyone attribute the night with the moon. You would just mark tiny dots in a sky and point to the day and say absent of the sun. It means that while we are very technologically dependent we are being told to believe through what is natural and what mother nature has intended you to see. Why advancement is necessary it's also good to stay rooted and see that everything from top to bottom no matter how primitive still believes in the same Sun and Moon that all life depend on. And that kind of love builds cities,nations, and galactic kingdoms.