link originally posted by: Kashai Hyperloop one is a about a transportation system that is really fast and technologically feasible to the extent that in relation to investors, easily Is on the fast tract to half a billion from investors in the not to distant future. Despite announcing a $50 million investment in mid-October, Hyperloop One plans to raise as much as $250 million in its next funding round early next year and is already seeking tens of millions in new financing, according to an investment document obtained by Forbes. Meanwhile, according to another company document, internal estimates of the cost of Hyperloop One projects could greatly exceed predictions from the concept’s architect, billionaire tech industrialist Elon Musk. www.msn.com... li=BBmkt5R&ocid=spartandhp As offered in this link by 2021 we will be carrying freight and passengers with this technology. In so far as what this technology is.... Levitation Rig The Hyperloop Levitation Rig is another unique test stand designed, fabricated and built by the Hyperloop team. This test stand is housed in an 18 cubic meter environmental chamber that is capable of achieving pressures down to 1/1000 of atmospheric. The rotor achieves surface speeds in excess of 300 m/s. These speeds are necessary to simulate Hyperloop’s cutting edge levitation systems that will be adapted for use on the Hyperpod. hyperloop-one.com... Intro The first several pages will attempt to describe the design in everyday language, keeping numbers to a minimum and avoiding formulas and jargon. I apologize in advance for my loose use of language and imperfect analogies. The second section is for those with a technical background. There are no doubt errors of various kinds and superior optimizations for elements of the system. Feedback would be most welcome – please send to hyperloop@spacex.com or hyperloop@teslamotors.com. I would like to thank my excellent compadres at both companies for their help in putting this together.PDF Now I am not an Engineer but clearly this seems a step forward in transportation technology. I have seen a couple YouTube vids debunking this.. Or at least pointing out how hard it will be to actually pull it off..and it not kill every one at the slightest mishap... Kinda like ethenol, it might be a red herring of sorts.. That said ANY time you try and create new tech some good comes out of it. Every mistake could invent something you weren't even trying for... Take NASA for example..EVERY single day we use some plastic or polymer that didn't work for space, but made a really good pencil eraser.. Money is fake...just some BS we tell ourselves. Labor, materials and KNOW how are all that matter. So IMHO reguardless or cost invention wins.