link Greetings ATS community, I wanted to pass on something my dad experienced several years ago in the hopes that perhaps others have experienced something similiar or know someone who has. I found the story quite interesting, and I hope you will too. Background: My dad was a pilot with 30+ years of experience flying all manner of civilian, military, and commercial aircraft. He was a naturally humble and quiet individual--never given to boasting or exageration. Like many pilots, he was wired to be logical, mathematical, and mechanical; he was also a supreme skeptic where all things supernatural and speculative are concerned. He preferred direct experience and scientific inquiry to wild tales. His story: One day he came back from a trip he flew (commercial flight) to Mexico. Over a beer, I casually asked him about his trip. He looked at me, cocked one eyebrow and replied, "I saw something I can't explain." This got my attention. On the layover, he and another pilot went out for dinner. Walking back along the beach at night, they both noticed a distant light moving along a fixed vector at a constant speed. They kept watching it, and were wondering about distance and elevation, thinking perhaps it was either a satellite or a high-flying aircraft--nothing out of the ordinary. Then it came to a complete stop, reversed direction 180 degrees, and whizzed off so fast it was out of sight in less than a second or two. So my first response was, "Do you think it was a UFO?" Again with the cocked eyebrow he said, "I don't want to use that word. All I will say is that what we witnessed completely and utterly defies all laws of aerodynamics that I'm familiar with. I'm not aware of any aircraft--military or otherwise--that can do that. It's beyond my abilities to explain; that's all I'm willing to say." To contrast this story, I will also say that one time we were watching a campy, early 80's Fox program that was reporting on the US government harboring aliens. At one point in the story, they started talking about a particular installation in the mountains of Nevada (not area 51) that's being used as a landing zone for UFO's. Dad started laughing so hard I thought he was going to fall off the couch. He looked at me and said, "I know what they do there." I said, "And???" He replied, "I can't tell you that, but I CAN tell you they're NOT landing UFO's." Total buzz kill. Anyway, that's the story I wanted to relate in the hopes that others can add their own. Thanks for reading.