The Moon that Fell from Heaven page: 1 link There is an intriguing text from Anatolian myth with regards to the Moon falling from Heaven; The Moon God fell from the sky and fell upon the gate complex, but no one saw him. The Storm God sent rain after him; he sent rains after him. Fear seized him; anxiety seized him. The god Hapantali went there. He stood beside him and uttered over him the words of a spell. The goddess Kamrusepa looked down from the sky and said: "What in the world has happened here? A good question from Kamrusepa there then, but the text is fragmentary and partial and the matter isn't really explained, so anyway the first question then is were was this gate complex and why couldn't he, the Moon, be seen having landed. My consideration is that the gate complex is that of the Cilician Gates , and that the Moon can no longer be seen as he has infused the Taurus Mountains with Silver. That region did relate to the Silver Mountains as several sources mention and was a major centre for the trade in Silver at Kultepe/Kanes; The essence of the trade was to ship tin, woolen textiles and lapis lazuli to Anatolia to sell it there in order to acquire, directly or indirectly, silver and gold, which was shipped back to Assur. Tin, essential for the Anatoian production of bronze was imported in Assur from Susa, perhaps by Elamite caravans, and ultimately originated from Central Asia. Assyrian trade colony at Kanes There are a great many tablets related to this trade recovered from Kultepe, on these sometimes can be seen the Taurus bull that bears upon it's back the Silver Mountain. Also seen beneath on that example is the Scorpion which was likely also an ideogram based upon the Cilician gates and greater region, also the symbol of Ishara the Goddess of the Silver Mountain and related to concept idea of the Moon within the Underworld, her symbolic metal silver and purity through refinement, the Temple of Ishara being at Kanes or Nesi to the Hurrians. There were a great many ideas bound up within this symbolism then, including in Cosmological terms the entrance into the underworld being above Taurus in Gemini, and it's opposite point of emergence in Scorpio, according to the inter-section point of the Galactic and Ecliptic planes. Were this gets interesting is that there is a Hurrian myth that relates to a conflict in the primeval period named The Song of Silver involving their tutelary God Tessub and his ongoing issues with Kumarbi, God of Destiny; Among Tessub, the Sun God of the Sky, Sauska Nineveh's Queen, and all the gods, no one worships him, although his power is greater than their power. His word is greater than their words, his wisdom is greater than their wisdom, his battle and his g1ory are greater than theirs. It is Silver the Fine of whom I sing. Wise men to1d me the story of the fatherless boy. It did not exist. Long ago Silver's Father had disappeared. And they do not know his sp1endor. Heroic men ran to battle. Abundance did not exist. And grain did not grow only hunger The Songs of the Kumarbi cycle can contain veiled allegory regarding ethnic disputes such as i outlined here with regards to Byblos and Ebla, it is likely the same in this case, conflict with the region of Nesa and the Silver Mountains, this however relating to a much earlier period, potentially also this relates to conflict from the Heavens as Silver could be named Kubbabar-Anzu as noted here the association with Anzu in conflict with Tessub relating to the same with Ninurta in the Sumerian mythos, and that seemingly from Anatolia. The identification of Silver as DUMU also correlates with the Sumerian notion of the Divine child as Damu, often seen as the basis for the cult of Dumuzid, were it was also the case that the City of Dumuzid, Bad-Tivira, was the centre of the Sumerian metallurgy industry. Silver is described in this text as a wannumiyas DUMU, which means a child whose father is dead or missing. Hittitologists generally translate this as "orphan," Silver's consternation at being told by the orphan boy that he too was an orphan need not mean that he was discovering this for the first time. The Song of Silver again is fragmentary but does seem to involve Silver at some point establishing his power; Silver seized power with his hands. Silver seized the spear. He dragged the Sun and Moon down from heaven. The Sun and the Moon did reverence. They bowed to Silver. The Sun and the Moon began to speak to Silver: O Silver, our lord, do not strike/kill us! We are the luminaries of heaven and earth. We are the torches of what lands you govern. If you strike/kill us, you will proceed to govern the dark lands person-ally." His soul within him was filled with love.He had pity on them In dragging the Sun and the Moon down from Heaven again it could be considered that is what had infused the Mountains with Gold and Silver, but also it could relate to the establishment of the cults of Allani and Ishara at the time of silver, the spiritual qualities brought down to Earth. Hopefully in the future more complete accounts of these texts will emerge as they are most intriguing and almost completely overlooked apart from specialists in the field, which is a pity as they are more interesting than most. edit on Kam1031300vAmerica/ChicagoThursday2731 by Kantzveldt because: (no reason given)