link a reply to: Profusion I must point out to you, that his statements are accurate. What is more, they are entirely appropriate to the situation. As we speak, proxy war is being fought by the destabilising forces of IS, sponsored by Western nations and interests by the back door, against the Assad regime. That regime is an ally of Russia. I am tired of pointing these things out, but to suggest that Russia is the problem, when for most of the last two decades, there has been western sponsored terrorism all over the most volatile region of the planet, smacks to me of the most unutterable witlessness. Russia is not the problem. I would not go as far as to say that it never was, and lets face it, the Russian government are not clean handed. But here is the thing... Russia cannot dishonour the British. It cannot dishonour the Americans. It can only make choices that make its nation look bad, and many of the choices it has made, with specific regard to its ACTUAL war effort against terror in Syria, have been absolutely legitimate, especially since they were not the cause of the problems there in the least. No... only OUR nations governments can dishonour us, and dishonour us they do. Every gun that makes its way from America and Britain, into the hands of a terrorist, dishonours us. Every time those weapons we sell the terrorists by the back door, are used to kill an innocent, we are dishonoured, stained with blood we would not wish to be shed. Our leaders, those of America and Britain not to mention other allies, THEY are the problem here. Their meddling, proxy warring, greed and hunger for power are the problem. They are the problem because we pay the taxes that make it possible. They are the problem because we did not give them permission to do these things in our name, because we would not want these things done in our name, and because they are supposed to be our representatives. No backstabbing, soft handed, work shy bastard represents me. No assemblage of schemers and game players represents me. No such mob represents my people on their best day, because on our best day the British people are not cold, evil, calculating and prepared to screw anyone to succeed. On our best day, even the least of us has more fair play and determination to do right than our government have. The same can be said a thousand fold for the leadership of the United States. We are not evil people, and yet we have allowed evil people to usurp the purpose of the tithe taken from our labour, to turn our effort, sweat and blood, into bloodshed overseas. We have had enemies made for us, by people we have mindlessly elected to positions with which they cannot be trusted. And we have the gall to be concerned about RUSSIA? I despair, I absolutely despair! This is not a game, this is not politics, this is real life. We should be doing better with it, and we are not. We should not be sliding ever further to the right, and yet we are. We should not be accepting the programming, and yet that is precisely what is happening all over the world, and in the OP of this very post. We MUST take back control of our governments. We MUST prevent our leaders from continuing these outmoded concepts of proxy war and destabilisation. We MUST mend the things our leaders broke in our name, we MUST take responsibility for those things, and we must NEVER allow them to happen again. In the meantime, we must leave Russia to deal with the crisis in Syria, so that the nation can be rebuilt, its infrastructure repaired, its homes and cities bought back to a livable state, and so that we are not distracted by a war that could turn from a pantomime into an even greater tragedy than it already is. I tire of this bizarre and ridiculous charade that we are apparently too stupid to stop, too uncaring to prevent. It needs to end, and end today, yesterday, TEN DAMNED YEARS AGO OR MORE! Can we stop accepting the lies, the obfuscations, the programming we have been fed? Can we PLEASE start doing that as a group? Would that be too damned much to ask? Because to be quite frank, if we cannot even do that, then we deserve to burn in nuclear fire for a hundred years, because we are not going to do ourselves any favours continuing such a pathetic existence as our leaders have created for us, cattle like and willing to believe whatever we are told, except that the sound of the bolt gun ahead is anything to worry about. edit on 27-10-2016 by TrueBrit because: grammatical error correction.