link I am sure that this post will fall on deaf ears. I am also sure that this may not be the best place to make any form of impact as let's be honest. I do not think many muslim's reside on this website and if they do, then I am sure they will defend their side just as usual. Tommy Robinson (also known as Stephen Christopher Yaxley-Lennon) is the co-founder and leader of the English Defence League. Some of you who know this man may already, may have opinions about him because of his creation of the EDL and what some of its members have been known to behave like. However, Tommy Robinson in my eyes is one of the very few, if not the only person to stand up to the islamist movement in this country. It is a good thing he is around whether you respect him or not as islamists have one thing in common, they have a lot to loose and also a lot to gain either way. Just like anyone that stands up to a movement like islam, its always a difficult one. Considering England has been asleep for to long to even notice what is going on under its nose. Everyone thinks England is promoting multiculturalism by allowing Islam to move freely within this country but islam and its ways are not to get along peacefully, they want western cultures out completely. If left to their own devices, England will be taken over within 10 - 20 years or sooner. Here is a short video of Tommy Robinson travelling through his local town and regardless of him being the main man of the EDL he is not being abusive to anyone yet this is the kind of treatment a born and raised English man gets in his own home town. As you can tell in the video above. Disgusting behaviour by disgusting people who are using their faith as a scape goat to instil fear, scaremonger and literally drive out English people from there home towns. How? Because people of England are sitting back and not sharing their fears about such extremism in their own country. Also a big shame is that the younger generation are being taught to accept anyone and everyone and although this is a beautiful message to portray this is the root cause of Islam continuing to grow. You will see in many debates get side tracked by blank statements made by younger generations about such political points only to end up with a nonsensical opinion that gets us nowhere. The older generation are tired of fighting, so we have only this moment in time to get those capable, those noticing changes in the UK and America and many other places to realise what is occurring before there is no one of the right age to know how things have changed. Desensitisation is the worry here. There is so much to cover a topic like this could last pages and pages, however I just want to point out a few things. The rest should be up to conversation. The current state of moderate muslims is not a thing. A muslim lives by the faith of Islam and if they had to side with one or the other, they would side with Islam. This should be cause of concern because even though they deem themselves not the same or as severe, they are in fact, just as severe. Basically they are sleeper cells being created within our very own country. They are not here to live peacefully along side us either. They are here to promote their faith and grow, growing means pushing more and more on other faiths that for many years have lived together, peacefully. Only until now, has this country had problems like this. I am not here to promote Tommy Robinson but I am here to state that this mans points should be heard. If you have the time now or again, give this video below a watch. He explains very well where things have gone, are going and will end up. Not just in the UK but everywhere in the world that does nothing about this. edit on 27-10-2016 by BlackProject because: (no reason given)