Hillary Conquers 2 Steps with Little Help page: 1 link She has again conquered a flight of stairs, well 2 steps, with little help. As you can see in the video she takes the first step with ease as her helper rushes to her side just in time. The next step was larger and she glances back knowing a lending hand is there. He gives her a boost and she proudly, albeit ironically, holds up her "Stronger Together" sign. Political Mudpit seems like a good spot for this. With how Presidents age in office, how much is she going to deteriorate over the next 4 years? Ghost I though she was about to perform a pole dance. (post by paradoxious removed for a serious terms and conditions violation) link What with all of the time she spends off of the campaign trail, you would think she could spend a little time in the gym, working on her leg strength. And I know, given all of the "speech money" she and Bill have socked away, she can afford to hire a personal trainer... link a reply to: mobiusmale What with all of the time she spends off of the campaign trail, you would think she could spend a little time in the gym, working on her leg strength. And cut into her 16 hours of sleep and naps per day? Not likely. link originally posted by: ghostrager Could it just be that the second step was a little higher up and she needed some help? Or maybe theven gentleman that is supposed to be by her side was just being a gentleman. Good thing Franklin D. Roosevelt isn't running in the US today. don't fool yourself, ol frank was in some deep pockets to. And cut into her 16 hours of sleep and naps per day? Not likely. I had heard it was 18 hours. Good thing Franklin D. Roosevelt isn't running in the US today. don't fool yourself, ol frank was in some deep pockets to. In this case it was about steps, not which pocket. There all in some pocket even if it isn't about money. link a reply to: roadgravel frank also tried to hide the extant his disability from the public as best he could. sounds very familiar to me. link Her, age in office? We're talking about the grim reaper here. Who's already been in cahoots with other elites and has been in the game completely giving zero f***s about anything except power. Anyway, the video didn't really deliver. She is wearing heels, so that's enough to valid needing a hand assist. Enough to be a non story, and discredit her real concerning health issues as far reach. On another note, she's horrendous. Her greeting the crowd wooing looking like someone who's high as hell in lala land tripping on acid etc. Let's not talk further about her joker smile.