GOP VP candidate Mike Pence's plane skids off runway at LaGuardia airport page: 1 JAMAICA, Queens (WABC) -- Republican Vice Presidential Candidate Mike Pence's plane skidded off the runway at LaGuardia Airport on Thursday night. It happened just before 8 p.m. Everyone on board is reportedly ok. Just witnessed an emergency landing at La Guardia Airport. Hope everyone's safe. @ABC7NY pic.twitter.com/e4PtrsQDeo — Xpl0iter (@itsmeJilani) October 27, 2016 It's not yet known what led to the mishap. Scary! No details as to what happened yet. CNN reporting that a witness from 27 years ago has come forward stating Trump told her he was going to kill Pence one day. Details forthcoming link originally posted by: In4ormant CNN reporting that a witness from 27 years ago has come forward stating Trump told her he was going to kill Pence one day. Details forthcoming link originally posted by: In4ormant CNN reporting that a witness from 27 years ago has come forward stating Trump told her he was going to kill Pence one day. Details forthcoming The witness wishes to stay anonymous and does not seek legal action. They just thought this is a good time to bring it up. link a reply to: xuenchen The onl thing to add is that he was on his to a fundraiser that he will no longer attend. link a reply to: In4ormant yea it definitely has been eyes are re, and i need a beer so i dont get teh tremors... anyway glad everyones ok I'm sure that there are those that are disappointed that no one was hurt. hate to be the one to say it, but it's true. I'm sure that there are those that are disappointed that no one was hurt. hate to be the one to say it, but it's true. Good god, why would you say that? Fox had a producer on Board, and he is saying everybody is ok (were about 45 people on the plane). Sounds like a real close call! link originally posted by: mobiusmale Fox had a producer on Board, and he is saying everybody is ok (were about 45 people on the plane). Sounds like a real close call! Good link This happens several times a year at that airport. They built the runway too short. Burbank airport in los angeles had a plane go off the runway. Through a fence and hit a bunch of cars in traffic on a major blvd several years ago originally posted by: BASSPLYR This happens several times a year at that airport. They built the runway too short. Burbank airport in los angeles had a plane go off the runway. Through a fence and hit a bunch of cars in traffic on a major blvd several years ago I could never stand landing there. They make you fly so high above the city and then drop you like a stone on to a short strip. I would rather parachute In. link I worry about this sort of thing happening to Donald Trump as we get closer to the election, and he keeps gaining on Evil Hillary. I have no doubt that the U.S. government would sabotage some part of Trump's jet, if he gets too close for comfort. link There’s a retro look to the aircraft flying Republican vice presidential candidate Mike Pence. Aviation enthusiasts may recognize the Eastern Air Lines paint scheme on the Boeing 737-700 picked to shuttle Pence, Donald Trump's running mate, between campaign stops. ... That’s because the old Eastern name and logo has been resurrected by a new Miami-based start-up carrier. The “new" Eastern made its first revenue flight in 2015 on a charter from Miami to Havana, Cuba. Eastern spokesman Nicholas Loudon confirmed to Today in the Sky it is an Eastern 737 that's flying the Republican candidate for vice president. The aircraft is configured in an all-business class layout that can seat 62 passengers. As for the current incarnation of Eastern, the company has said it intends to eventually launch regularly scheduled flights from U.S. airports. For now, however, the airline is focused on operating charter services to Cuba and destinations in the Caribbean region.