Can normal transistors act like a qubit? page: 1 link Hi. I guess I have a question relating to quantum computing. Since qubits are what makes up quantum computers... That being a qubits can act like a transistor that can be either on, off, or both on and off at the same time. In usual computing... Transistors are either on or off. In quantum they can be both on and off at the same time... The question I have is simply this. Is it possible to make a transistor that can act as on, off, and on and off at the same time... Even if you had to add an extra layer of circuitry to get that same reading from that single transistor? I mean. A normal transistor operate that if it gets no voltage or low voltage then the transistor is in an off state. If it gets a certain voltage it is in an on state. Couldn't you make the voltage extra high to get a both on/off at the same time state? Or half voltage to get the same on/off state at the same time to essentially create a fake qubit scenario? There might have to be additional transistors to help make sure of that determination of a transistor appearing in an on/off state but couldn't it be possible? Perhaps a circuit of transistors could determine whether the proceeding transistor should act as both on/off by checking the voltage some how? Idk... Please answer me like I'm a drunk stupid idiot. Perhaps laymen terms? I can be quite the idiot sometimes. Thanks for hearing me out. I'm currently drunk and just pondering things link a reply to: DaRAGE I'm sure we could do weird stuff with circuitry to store more than one bit of data in the circuit, but that doesn't really give an advantage over just storing more bits with our conventional technology (which has been highly refined). The advantage of the qbit isn't really that it stores more information, it's that it can be used to process more information at the same time. Quantum + computing = quantum computing The key features of an ordinary computer—bits, registers, logic gates, algorithms, and so on—have analogous features in a quantum computer. Instead of bits, a quantum computer has quantum bits or qubits, which work in a particularly intriguing way. Where a bit can store either a zero or a 1, a qubit can store a zero, a one, both zero and one, or an infinite number of values in between—and be in multiple states (store multiple values) at the same time! If that sounds confusing, think back to light being a particle and a wave at the same time, Schrödinger's cat being alive and dead, or a car being a bicycle and a bus. A gentler way to think of the numbers qubits store is through the physics concept of superposition (where two waves add to make a third one that contains both of the originals). If you blow on something like a flute, the pipe fills up with a standing wave: a wave made up of a fundamental frequency (the basic note you're playing) and lots of overtones or harmonics (higher-frequency multiples of the fundamental). The wave inside the pipe contains all these waves simultaneously: they're added together to make a combined wave that includes them all. Qubits use superposition to represent multiple states (multiple numeric values) simultaneously in a similar way. Just as a quantum computer can store multiple numbers at once, so it can process them simultaneously. Instead of working in serial (doing a series of things one at a time in a sequence), it can work in parallel (doing multiple things at the same time). Only when you try to find out what state it's actually in at any given moment (by measuring it, in other words) does it "collapse" into one of its possible states—and that gives you the answer to your problem. Estimates suggest a quantum computer's ability to work in parallel would make it millions of times faster than any conventional computer... if only we could build it! So how would we do that? explainthatstuff.com If I understand correctly, a quantum computer will just be a smaller, more energy efficient version of a massive parallel computer.