The article explains a lot of the background to the White Helmets and asks some important questions about the relations between government and NGO's, or as the author terms them 'Near-Government Organisations. The author should also be commended for the extensive bibliography.
The author suggests that the truth about the White Helmets may lie somewhere in the middle, that the White Helmets is a dual-purpose organisation with both humanitarian and propaganda functions.
The author offers no evaluation of the video evidence provided by the White Helmets, which to a number of people seems incontrovertably fake and staged. If this video evidence is indeed faked, then it invites the question: why is this necessary? where are all the real casualties? Hasn't the Russian bombing killed any civilians at all?
"The SCD or White Helmets counts nearly 3,000 rescue workers" This claim comes only from the White Helmets. It could well be that the Foreign Office is paying for 3,000 salaries, but whether those drawing
them are occupied in full-time humanitarian work is another matter.
After watching carefully the dubious video footage of rescue scenes, and the far more convincing footage of White Helmets participating in torture and abuse of prisoners, it is difficult to see how the White
Helmets are anything more than a set of expensive props and uniforms, provided to extremist groups in Aleppo and Idlib and donned for propaganda purposes, or when other uniforms are in the wash.
Furthermore, given that the White Helmets are funded by the governments and organisations who are totally unmoved by the plight of civilians in the greater part of Syria, the idea that these bodies would pay for humanitarian duties on the part of the White Helmets seems somewhat optimistic.
If the White Helmets are have a dual-purpose function, it is not propagandist-humanitarian, but propagandist-terrorist.
I would also take issue with the statement 'The sad thing is that [Avaaz] has learned nothing from its own campaign for a No-Fly Zone in Libya'. This view, like the idea that the US etc keep making 'mistakes', is 'following a mistaken policy', presupposes that Avaaz is well-intentioned, that it opposes the destruction of Iraq, Libya, Syria (Iran, Russia ...)