Deputy Chairman of the Iranian parliament's National Security and Foreign Policy Commission Abolfazl Hassan Beiki accused Saudi Arabia of orchestrating several assassination attempts in the Southern provinces of Iran and plotting to blow up three tons of explosives in Tehran. 8 Shares
5 2 0 1
"We have witnessed the Saudis' footprints in several failed assassination attempts in the two (Southwestern and Southeastern) provinces of Khouzestan and Sistan and Balouchestan," Hassan Beiki, also a former advisor to Chief of Staff of the Iranian Armed Forces, said on Saturday.
He also said that a terrorist team which was disbanded in Garmsar recently and intended to blow up three tons of explosives in Tehran was affiliated to Riyadh, adding that the arrested terrorists in Garmsar and Tehran had received financial support from Saudi Arabia and had been trained in Iraq's Mosul and Syria's Raqqa.
"We should clearly announce that today, the Saudis are adopting measures against our national security through other countries' embassies, and unfortunately, we see today that certain Arab, African and European embassies are accompanying and uttering similar words like the Saudis (against Iran)," Hassan Beiki said.
Earlier this week, Head of the Islamic Revolution Guards Corps Public Relations Department General Ramezan Sharif announced that the IRGC forces have dismantled two terrorist groups who sought to carry out sabotage acts inside Iran, adding that they were mercenaries of Saudi Arabia.
"By hollow promises, Saudi Arabia attempted to make the terrorist groups, including Komala and the former Democrat group (Democratic Party of Iran's Kurdistan (Hadka) affiliated to Komala party), to confront the Islamic Republic," General Sharif said on Tuesday.
MORE... Picture shows ISIS Yazidi sex slaves sold in horrifying auctions to Saudi Arabia Iran's leading scholar urges Muslims to conquer Mecca Saudi police attacks a vegetable vendor with a stunt gun for being involved in a car accident The Bin Ladens: A Saudi bellwether "Two 12-member and 16-member teams of Democrat who had entered Iran for sabotage operations were disbanded by the IRGC's Ground Force and the intelligence ministry before they could do anything noteworthy," he added.
His remarks came two month after the IRGC dismantled a team of 9 terrorists "sent by Saudi Arabia to foment insecurity inside the country".
The IRGC killed four of the terrorists, including their commander, and injured two others in the city of Saravan in Sistan and Balouchestan province in Southeastern Iran.
Official statements said the terrorist team which intended to carryout "sabotage acts inside Iran was disbanded by the IRGC in the Kouhak border region of Saravan city".
The IRGC also destroyed the weapons, ammunition, wireless equipment, night-vision goggles and three Toyota vehicles of the terrorists calling themselves Jeish al-Adl group.
Also in September, the Iranian intelligence and security forces dismantled a team of 12 terrorists sent by Saudi Arabia and certain trans-regional states to foment insecurity inside the country.
The terrorist team which was equipped with light and semi-heavy weapons and intended to carryout sabotage acts inside Iran was disbanded in the Western bordering areas of Sardasht city through cooperation with the IRGC forces.
Ten terrorists of the outlawed Democrat Party were also killed last month in armed clashes with the Iranian border guards in the Western province of Kurdistan.
The terrorists who were trying to sneak into the country through the Western Iranian borders in the village of Baneh and Khalfi in Sardasht region, sought to foment insecurity in Iran's Kurdistan province.
Based on the latest information, 10 terrorists of the outlawed group were killed during the clashes.