BY AHT Staff Russian Navy Fleet Starts Strikes at Terrorists' Positions in Syria's Aleppo Russian warships deployed in Syrian waters targeted the terrorist groups' positions in the Western part of Aleppo city and in the Eastern side of the town of al-Bab, inflicting major damage on the militants, an expert in strategic affairs disclosed on Saturday. 5 Shares 0 1 
Kamal al-Jafa termed Moscow's Kaliber cruise missile attacks on terrorist centers in Western Aleppo city and the town of al-Bab, North of the city, as a sign of the crucial role that the Russian naval forces are to play in Aleppo's Large-Scale Military Operation. 
"The attacks came as preparations for the implementation of al-Bab operation are over now," al-Jafa said. 
"Turkey tries to increase its role in the diplomatic settlement of Syrian crisis via its influence in al-Bab region," he added. 
"If the Syrian army seizes control of al-Bab within the framework of a coalition with Russia and Iran and diplomatic and logistical support of China, the aspirations and plans of the US, Turkey and even Saudi Arabia will fall flat and the Syrian government's sovereignty in Northern Syrian will be expanded," the expert underscored. 
A Russian military and diplomatic source had disclosed earlier today that the Russian fighter jets on 'Admiral Kuznetsov' aircraft carrier and the country's navy fleet would start strikes on terrorists in Aleppo in Northern Syria soon. MORE... The Criminal West’s State Sponsorship of Terrorism 
"Russian warplanes, on board the Kuznetsov aircraft carrier, will soon hit the positions and gatherings of the terrorist groups in Aleppo," the source said. 
"Mig 29 and Sukhoi 33 fighter jets have taken off Admiral Kuznetsov' aircraft carrier in recent days and have carried out reconnaissance operations over Syria," the source added. 
"Mig 29 and Sukhoi 33 fighter jets' reconnaissance flights were aimed at identifying the new positions of the terrorists and preparing a list of terrorist targets to hand over to the navy fleet (a cruiser and destroyer),"the sources went on to say. 
"The Russian fleet, including Admiral Kuznetsov aircraft carrier, 'Pyotr Veliky' nuclear power guided missile cruiser and Admiral Gregorowich destroyer are ready for military operation," the source underlined. 
Sources in the Russian Defense Ministry disclosed on Tuesday that the country's aircraft carrier group was ready to launch a strike targeting terrorists in the province of Aleppo. 
The source told Russia's Gazeta that the attack, which would likely engage Kalibr cruise missiles, would target militants outside Aleppo, and not the residential areas. 
The group, which includes Russia's 'Admiral Kuznetsov' aircraft carrier, 'Pyotr Veliky' nuclear power guided missile cruiser and two destroyers, completed its transfer to the Mediterranean Sea and is getting ready to strike, the Defense Ministry source said. 
"The group's main goal is to carry out missile strikes on terrorists outside of Aleppo that are attempting to get into the city", the source added. 
He also said that Kalibr cruise missiles would be used in the strikes, but did not specify from which ships the missiles would be launched. 
No Russian surface ship that was currently in the Med was capable of firing the Kalibr-NK missiles, but submarine-launched Kalibr-PL could be used in the strike. The surface-launched type of Kalibr missile could also be launched from the Caspian Sea. 
Final details of the strike were being worked out, the source told Gazeta.ru, including zeroing in on the terrorists' locations, finding out the details of their transport routes, base camps and storage and training facilities. 
"The strikes will avoid the city of Aleppo to prevent civilian casualties, because terrorists continue to use city residents as human shields." 
Early in November, a Russian naval group, headed by Admiral Kuznetsov aircraft carrier and the battle cruiser Peter the Great, arrived in the Mediterranean Sea, causing quite a stir in the West.