11 Shares
10 0 0 1
I grew up in a working class family and have experienced the deep racism of a society that views Vietnamese Americans as the targets of war. I've lived through successive Democratic Party administrations with little to celebrate. The Bill Clinton era brought NAFTA, which outsourced my Aunt's union job and forced her into the low-wage service sector. My mother never found a living wage job and relied on my father's public sector union position to meet our family's needs. In the 21st century, Obama expanded Bush’s War on Terror, which merged my father’s job with into the Department of Homeland Security.
Downward pressure on wages and working conditions forced my father to refinance our home multiple times to pay college expenses for my sister and I. Even then, my sister and I graduated with large sums of student debt. I have worked four jobs in three years and only one has paid a truly living wage. Another four years of a Democratic Party President was not going to make anything better for my family. That is not to say that Donald Trump was the answer to the structural problems of exploitation. But Trump's victory is not the end of the world, either.
Trump's victory is the product of global capitalism’s decay. Millions of people voted for Trump for a variety of reasons, namely because he clearly labeled problems and outlined solutions to them. I don’t agree with all of his solutions. White nationalism stains his domestic and international agenda. Trump’s call to further militarize the US-Mexico border yet make peace with Russia is a contradiction in and of itself. A white nationalist billionaire who speaks the language of racism on the one hand and the interests of peace on the other is not exactly a model of consistency.
However, Trump’s consistency is not the most important aspect of this election. Millions of people have shown their disgust with the two-party system of the capitalist class. A number of mostly white workers and whites from the petty business class voted for Trump. Trump also received more votes than expected from the Black and Latino electorate. Meanwhile, the elections produced a low turnout for Clinton from the historic Democratic Party bases of Black voters, Latino voters, and women voters. Clinton may have won the electoral vote, but the balance of forces ensured the ruling class would gamble on Trump. Trump's base of white workers and petty business elites angered by thirty years of monopoly capitalist assault are more of a threat at the moment than the millions of Democratic party voters who are now without a home. The round table of elites called the Electoral College could not afford any more damage to the Democratic Party than what transpired during the election.
So the Democratic Party is now on its deathbed and there is only one class of people willing to resurrect it: white liberals. A large section of the Democratic Party base wanted Bernie Sanders to be their next President. They did not hold their nose for Clinton. The legitimate concerns that immigrants and oppressed people possess with Trump's racism should not be led into the bowels of the Democratic Party. Yet for white liberals, this is the ultimate mission.
MORE... Brian Cloughley: “The Greatest Achievement of Mr. Trump would be Engage in Positive Discussions with Russia and China” Arise President Trump (or Why it's not the End of the World as We Know it) Trump's sexual predator characteristics - His Grandfather was a pimp, but at least he paid the women he hired The significance of the GOP's attempted purge of Donald Trump Trump's victory has energized the white liberal section of the United States to fight back. White liberals began the process in a deep state of mourning over Clinton's loss. They then placed blame for Trump’s victory on Russia, low-voter turnout, and the white working class. White liberals have blamed everyone except Hillary Clinton and the Democratic Party. Now, white liberals in the US hope to wage a crusade against Trump in hopes of a Democratic Party recovery. It is all too clear that their primary intention is to get ahead of the genuine forces that rejected both Trump and Clinton and lead them into the Democratic Party graveyard.
White liberals love to hide their own racism and ruling class sensibilities through a process of appeal and betrayal. They speak with the authority of moral righteousness on the one hand and the knife of oppression on the other. They talk down to the struggle of peoples oppressed by white supremacy and attempt to steer it in a way that benefits their class interests. White liberals despise the working class because they understand that there will come a day when it destroys the system that they profit so handsomely from.
White liberals usually originate from the ruling class, the managerial class, and various stripes of the professionalized sector. Their class has ordained themselves the true leaders of "human rights" based on race, gender, and sexual equality. However, White liberals speak of human rights on the basis of a complete abandonment of the material struggle for liberation. In other words, the white liberal is the ultimate counterrevolutionary force in US society. It has wielded the so-called struggle for human rights as a weapon to prevent the emergence of class-consciousness among the oppressed and its genuine leaders.
The 2016 elections have shown that the broad class arrangement of white liberals is indeed in crisis and only has itself to blame. White liberals cannot acknowledge that it was their brand of politics that led to the Trump moment. Their dominance over the left in the US ensured that no organized force existed strong enough to challenge the ills of capitalist decline. Millions of people voted for Sanders based on his demands for material relief. Millions of people voted for Trump for the similar reasons, his racism and sexism notwithstanding. Whatever racism and sexism existed in his rhetoric could not "trump" the fact that the trade deals and wars he spoke out against in part drove ordinary people to vote for him. If the Trump base wanted racism and sexism primarily, they would of voted for Ted Cruz or Jeb Bush in the primaries.
So White liberal anger about Trump's victory is not directed at sexism, racism, or any other aspect of Trump's politics. White liberals are afraid of the sharpening contradictions of US society that threaten to squeeze them out of their privileged position under the racist and capitalist order. Millions of people are now asking where white liberalism was during the massive loss in working class income and wealth that occurred over the last forty years? Where were the White liberals during the endless wars that have been waged even more fervently by Democratic Party Administrations? Where were the White liberals during the erection of the largest police and prison state in the world, the institutions that murder and incarcerate Black Americans in record numbers and deport undocumented peoples at historic rates?
The answer is that white liberals were supporting the US capitalist system's assault on the oppressed every step of the way. This is what they are trying to hide with their anger over Trump. We cannot defeat Trump's white nationalism if the white liberal is not defeated with just as much vigor. White liberal ideology has a history of infecting social movements. As it spreads, it breeds the germs of Democratic Party control over these movements. But the Democratic Party made its own bed by acting as the more effective evil of the ruling class. If a powerful movement of the working class is to emerge in the age of Trump, then we must fight hard against the white liberal forces working hard to resuscitate the Democratic Party and build an independent party of our own.