Kingdom’s energy minister says move would risk damaging the US economy. 2 Shares
1 0 0 1
Saudi Arabia has warned Donald Trump that the incoming US president will risk the health of his country’s economy if he acts on his election promises to block oil imports.
Over the course of the two-year American election process, Republican nominee Trump promised on the campaign trail to divest U.S. interests from “our foes and the oil cartels,” referring mainly to the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), of which the KSA is the largest producer and de facto leader.
“At his heart President-elect Trump will see the benefits and I think the oil industry will also be advising him accordingly that blocking trade in any product is not healthy,” Khalid al-Falih , chairman of Aramco and Saudi Aramco Oil Minister, told the Financial Times in Marrakesh, where world leader’s are currently negotiating the nuts and bolts of the landmark 2015 climate change agreement.
Saudi Arabia is the U.S.’ largest Middle Eastern oil supplier, though the North American country gets most of its energy from domestic and Canadian sources.
Al-Falih added that the free trade energy culture currently in place benefits the United States because it has created a refining industry and ignited a job-hungry shale revolution.
MORE... Setting the method to probe U.S.-Saudi wars How the occupied mentality syndrome works Will a 28 page Congressional Report on 9/11 unravel US foreign policy? The occupied mentality Syndrome “The U.S. is sort of the flag-bearer for capitalism and free markets,” according to Al-Falih. “The U.S. continues to be a very important part of a global industry that is interconnected, that is dealing with a fungible commodity which is crude oil. So having equalization through free trade is very healthy for oil.”
During Presidential race Donald Trump had blamed Saudi Arabia for the 9/11 terrorist attacks and in March, the real estate magnate said he would consider stopping US oil purchases from Saudi Arabia and other Arab allies unless the Saudi government provided ground troops to fight ISIS.
NY Daily News revealed Trump sold the 45th floor of Trump World Tower to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia for $4.5 million in June 2001, according to a city Finance Department spokeswoman. In 2008, the apartments became part of the Saudi Mission to the United Nations, records show.
The reports emerged back then revealed the reality of Trump's relations with the Riyadh regime; but Mr Trump has not always expressed a positive view of the Middle Eastern country.