A Plea from California to Not Replicate in Canada the Attacks on the Academic Careers of Steven Salaita and Norman Finkelstein for Opposing "the Persecution of the Indigenous Arab Populations of the Occupied Territories." 3 Shares
2 0 0 1
TO THE EDITOR OF THE LETHBRIDGE HERALD ON NOVEMBER 15, 2016.
As an American with Canadian friends, I have been following with some interest and concern the unfolding story of Anthony Hall’s recent suspension from his position at the .
I have looked to our northern neighbour as one admires a wiser, older sibling. Canadians to me seem less radical, less extreme, and more ethical than my own more reactive countrymen and women. Canada, after all, accepted our draft dodgers of the ’70s who questioned the morality and justness of the Vietnam War. To me, that was something to be lauded. Imagine my chagrin upon learning that a university professor with a 30-year career, who encourages critical analysis and social responsibility, had been suspended without pay, apparently without a formal and unprejudiced investigation occurring first.
Hall’s suspension reminds me of the famous cases of two American academics, Steven Salaita and Norman Finkelstein. Both were openly critical of Zionism and spoke against the marginalization and persecution of the indigenous Arab populations of the Occupied Territories. Both were ostracized publicly for their vocal support of Palestinian rights and lost their jobs.
I adjure the not to take a page out of the American playbook by punishing academics who dare to speak up for the marginalized peoples of the world. Please live up to the values of the wiser, more ethical and socially conscientious northern neighbour you have always represented for Americans like myself.
Teresa Ghannam
Sacramento, Calif.
Recommended For You Dear Vice Chancellor Kamran: Salam from the East coast of Canada. Thank you for taking the time to address this important issue re...
By M.R. Islam Creating an Anti-Muslim Bias at a Canadian University Professor Mike Mahon President and Vice Chancellor Lethbridge, Canada Dear Professor Mike Mahon, &...
By AHT Staff The Genocide of Indigenous Peoples in North America and Palestine-Israel Prof. Hall speaks at the Haldimand Deed Recognition Dinner at Kanata in the Mohawk Village near Brantford Ontario. Prof. Hall has been the...
By Prof. Tony Hall UK Coverage of the Debacle at the 