Syrian military forces continued to advance against Jeish al-Fatah in Eastern Aleppo and captured their operations room, a military source said on Monday. 10 Shares
3 7 0 0
"Following hours of non-stop clashes, the army soldiers pushed Jaish al-Fatah militants back from a part of Hananou Housings and seized full control over militants' operations room that led the battle with the government forces in the districts of Oweijeh and the Northern side of Hananou," the source said.
"With the loss of control over their operations room in the Northern side of Hananou Housing Project, Jaish al-Fatah will significantly lose its power in the districts of al-Heidariyeh, Sakhour, Sheikh Khezr, al-Arz al-Hamra and Old Sheikh Najjar," the source underlined.
Meantime, a long convoy of more Army soldiers arrived in Aleppo on Sunday to join the government forces' anti-terrorism operation in the Eastern districts of the city.
"Several hundred soldiers arrived in Aleppo province to join the army men and Liwa al-Quds forces' operation in the neighborhoods of Ba'aeidin, Bostan al-Pasha and Hananou," the sources said.
"Hundreds more of army soldiers are also due to enter Aleppo province in the next few days," another source disclosed.
The source said that army forces are fully ready to enter the Eastern neighborhoods of Aleppo, adding, "The army's special forces and commandoes have deployed in positions overlooking the Eastern neighborhoods of Aleppo, waiting for their commanders' order to start their operation."
Recommended For You Sergei Shoigu: Admiral Kuznetsov Aircraft-carrying Cruiser Has Begun Military Operations for the First Time in History of Russian Navy; Kills Over 50 Nusra Terrorists Including Commanders in Aleppo (Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu before the meeting with Defence Ministry leadership and representatives of the military-industrial complex...
By AHT Staff The pro-government troops could bring the terrorists in al-Rashedeen region to verge of collapse after taking full control of Housing Proj...
By AHT Staff Russian Navy Fleet Starts Strikes at Terrorists' Positions in Syria's Aleppo Kamal al-Jafa termed Moscow's Kaliber cruise missile attacks on terrorist centers in Western Aleppo city and the town of al-Bab, North of ...
By AHT Staff Jaish Al-Fatah Leader Admits Receiving Financial, Military Aid from Saudi Arabia