Siobhan McFadyen, Express, October 31, 2016 
German Chancellor Angela Merkel is facing catastrophe over her failed migrant policy, according to a new report. 
During the first six months of 2016, migrants committed 142,500 crimes, according to the Federal Criminal Police Office. 
And the country has been hit by a spate of horrendous violent crime including rapes, sexual and physical assaults, stabbings, home invasions, robberies, burglaries and drug trafficking. 
Adding to the country’s woes is the fact that thousands of people have gone missing after travelling to the country on invitation from the country’s leader. 
Germany took in more than 1.1million migrants in the past year and parts of the country are crippled with a lack of infrastructure. 
Now the true reality is hitting home ahead of next year’s elections as the far right surges in the polls threatening to topple the Christian Democratic Union (CDU) leader Mrs Merkel. 
According to a report by the international policy council the Gatestone Institute, local police in many parts of the country admit that they are stretched to the limit. 
The report states: “The rape of a ten-year-old girl in Leipzig, the largest city in Saxony, has drawn renewed attention to the spiralling levels of violent crime perpetrated by migrants in cities and towns across Germany. 
“During the first six months of 2016, migrants committed 142,500 crimes, according to the Federal Criminal Police Office. This is equivalent to 780 crimes committed by migrants every day, an increase of nearly 40 per cent over 2015. The data includes only those crimes in which a suspect has been caught. 
“Thousands of migrants who entered the country as ‘asylum seekers’ or ‘refugees’ have gone missing. They are, presumably, economic migrants who entered Germany on false pretences. 
“Many are thought to be engaging in robbery and criminal violence.” 
According to Freddi Lohse of the German Police Union in Hamburg, many migrant offenders view the leniency of the German justice system as a green light to continue delinquent behaviour, says the report. 
He said: “They are used to tougher consequences in their home countries. 
“They have no respect for us.” 
Meanwhile a female police officer has admitted that officers are under attack and that the courts are a “joke.” 
In a new book, Tania Kambouri, a German police officer, said: “For weeks, months and years I have noticed that Muslims, mostly young men, do not have even a minimum level of respect for the police. 
“When we are out patrolling the streets, we are verbally abused by young Muslims. 
“There is the body language, and insults like ‘s*** cop’ when passing by. 
“If we make a traffic stop, the aggression increases ever further, this is overwhelmingly the case with migrants. 
“It cannot be that offenders continue to fill the police files, hurt us physically, insult us, whatever, and there are no consequences. 
“Many cases are closed or offenders are released on probation or whatever. 
“Yes, what is happening in the courts today is a joke.” 
Migrants committed 208,344 crimes in 2015, according to a confidential police report leaked to Bild. 
This figure represents an 80 per cent increase since 2014 and is equivalent to 570 crimes committed by migrants every day, or 23 crimes each hour, in 2015 alone. 
The report added: “The growing sense of lawlessness is substantiated by an October 24 YouGov poll which found that 68 per cent of Germans believe that security in the country has deteriorated during the past several years. 
“Nearly 70 per cent of respondents said they fear for their lives and property in German train stations and subways, while 63 per cent feel unsafe at large public events.”