Russia and NATO hold war games next to each other 11/01/2016 
EXPRESS Around 680 troops from 32 NATO states and partner countries – including Israel and Ukraine – have been carrying out drills in Montenegro since Monday. Joint exercises codenamed Crna Gora 2016 are taking places until November 4 testing Western allies responses to a number of disaster scenarios, including floods and chemical spills. At the same time, a few miles over the border in Serbia 150 paratroopers from Russian Airborne Troops will be conducting drills from November 2 for two weeks. The exercises will see hundreds of heavily-armed and battle-ready Russian and NATO troops placed within a few hundreds miles of each. Montenegro’s Deputy Prime Minister Dusko Markovic said: “This is an opportunity to work with NATO during the four-day exercise to determine our capacity and the capabilities of our response to natural disasters, as well as to recognise our weaknesses and eliminate them in time. “Montenegro has demonstrated the ability as a future member of NATO, not only through organising this exercise, but also bearing its burden. “Montenegro has demonstrated the ability to not only willing to accept but also help realise partnership goals.” Slavic Brotherhood 2016 will involve Russian troops and Serbian and Belarusian forces. Fifty soldiers from the Russian Military Transport Aviation will take part along with combat vehicles, all-terrain vehicles and drones. Aleksandr Grushko, Russia’s NATO Representative, said of the latest drills: “NATO’s efforts have been changing the very essence of the military security in the regions which are adjacent to the Russian border. 
Russian troops on exercise 
Around 680 troops from 32 NATO states and partner countries are taking part 
Map of Serbia and Montenegro, where the exercises are taking part “This seriously worsens the regional security and the security of those countries that participate in these drills and this activity. “I think it’s a double signal. First of all, it’s a signal to western public opinion that all NATO actions on its eastern flank are calibrated and do not transcend the framework of reasonable defence. “Secondly, it’s also an apparent attempt to send a signal to us, so that Russia will not react in what they believe to be an excessive and aggressive manner.”