Opinion: Hillary is the Whore of Babylon and is not Human 11/06/2016 
TRACY TWYMAN 
I put some of this information in an article I published yesterday morning about a larger subject. Today I have decided to isolate these segments and add more for a comprehensive piece on the subject because other relevant information has emerged. 
People in the FBI think Hillary Clinton is the Anti-Christ . They are close. She is the Whore of Babylon. 
Hillary was born in 1948, supposedly. I looked for this information on a hunch, after noticing several clues. And sure enough, back in 2008, someone on David Icke’s forum speculated that Hillary may have been the “Moonchild” that, according to artist Marjorie Cameron , was implanted into her own womb by rocket scientist, occultist, and Crowley associate Jack Parsons during a ritual called the “ Babalon Working .” The purpose was to birth a child to be an incarnation of what Crowley called “ Babalon ,” the Scarlet Whore with the cup of blood foretold in St. John’s Revelation that rides the Beast. 
Cameron actually claimed that this fetus, after being taken from her womb, was delivered to people involved in the military’s nuclear weapons progranm, who were apparently in cahoots with Parsons, and placed inside of a nuclear bomb that was tested. But the fetus “survived,” she said, because it had been placed inside of a special canister made exactly for this purpose. For the 1945 “Trinity” bomb test they made a special canister called “Jumbo” that was supposed to to preserve the plutonium if the bomb did failed to go off. They reportedly didn’t end up using it for that, but it has been suggested that this is what preserved the fetus of the Moonchild. Presumably, it grew up to be somebody. 
Crowley named one of his female consorts (who he always called his “Scarlet Women”) “Hilarion.” Her name was Jeanne Foster. Crowley’s attempt to conceive an heir as a “magical child” with Hilarion resulted, supposedly, in the child’s spirit being attached to his protege Charles Stanfield Jones back in 1909. The “attachment” allegedly occurred when Jones went through the ritual for “Crossing the Abyss” in the 11th degree of the O.T.O., which involves being ritually sodomized by everyone in the group. 
Jack Parsons, another person who had willingly subjected himself to this ritual, channeled The Book of the Antichrist in 1949, where he foretold: 
And within seven years of this time, BABALON, THE SCARLET WOMAN HILARION will manifest among ye, and bring this my work to its fruition. 
I also believe that Hillary, with her notorious cracking voice, and possibly her rival Trump, were foretold in another document channeled by Parsons, the Book of Babalon : 
Her voice is sure as the judgement trump to crack the house of wrong, Though walls are high and stone is hard and the rule of hell was long The gates shall fall and the irons break in the Birth of BABALON. 
In Rome the Hilaria was a festival to the goddess Cybele (worshipped in the form of a black meteorite stone) to celebrate the “resurrection” of her son, who, as the legend states, she had been having sex with. She then became jealous of his love of others, castrated him, and let him die of bleeding (the reason why all of her priests, the Galli, were castrated, and actually considered women). She later regretted this and caused him to be brought back to life, then forced everyone under her rule to celebrate by laughing and partying joyously, as commemorated in this festival. Consider this next time you notice Hillary Clinton laughing “inappropriately.” 
Also note that Hillary Clinton has made several self-depricating jokes about herself being “ not even human ” and “short-circuiting” when she gets herself twisted up in her own lies. Specifically, in October 2015, when her interviewer at Buzzfeed noted that she seemed to not be sweating, even though it was a hot day (odd, because Hillary has notoriously bad B.O.), she asked Hillary what kind of deodorant she used. Clinton’s reply was astounding. 
You guys are the first to realize that I’m really not even a human being. I was constructed in a garage in Palo Alto a very long time ago… I mean, a man whose name shall remain nameless created me in his garage. 
Palo Alto is the location of Stanford University, Jack Parsons’ Alma Mater.