After claiming the lives of more than a quarter of a million people; causing the biggest refugee crisis since World War II; and fueling the rise of Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS), the civil war in Syria, which started in 2011 as a peaceful protest against President Bashar al-Assad but later turned into an international proxy war, is today, signaling World War III. At least, that’s what the West and the mainstream media want you to believe . However, the truth is the United States and its allies are using the “war crimes” and “crimes of historic proportions” in Syria to prolong the proxy war, overthrow Assad, and annex an independent country. Sadly, the United Nations, Amnesty International, the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, and other “concerned parties” (including the mainstream media), support the West in its malicious intent.
The Western Claim “Russia and the Syrian regime owe the world more than an explanation about why they keep hitting hospitals and medical facilities and children and women,” US Secretary of State John Kerry recently commented. Kerry begged for an investigation of the Russian and Syrian military strikes against civilians and medical facilities in Aleppo, as war crimes.
“There is clear and abundant evidence the Assad regime and the Russian government are committing crimes that include, but are not limited to, deliberate attacks on civilians, collective punishment, starvation as a tool of war, torture, murder, inhumane treatment of prisoners and the use of chemical weapons on the battlefield,” asserted The Washington Post .
“The ancient city of Aleppo, a place of millennial civility and beauty, is today a slaughterhouse — a gruesome locus of pain and fear, where the lifeless bodies of small children are trapped under streets of rubble and pregnant women deliberately bombed,” observed the UN human rights’ chief, seeking a war crimes inquiry.
The Western Evidence 1. A commission for International Justice and Accountability — a non-profit organization funded by western states including the UK, US, the EU, Germany, Switzerland, Norway, Canada and Denmark — smuggled over 600,000 top-secret Syrian government documents brought to Western Europe .
An analysis of some 400 documents “linked the systematic torture and murder of tens of thousands of Syrians to a written policy approved by President Bashar al-Assad, coordinated among his security-intelligence agencies, and implemented by regime operatives.” Current status: Neither the documents nor the evidence has been made public.
2. A decorated American journalist and a former CIA officer, Adam Ciralsky wrote about the 53,275 photos that “Caesar” (a Syrian military photographer turned war crimes whistleblower, who fled the country in August 2013) took as grisly evidence of Assad’s brutality.
“The pictures, most of them taken in Syrian military hospitals, show corpses photographed at close range — one at a time as well as in small groupings. Virtually all of the bodies — thousands of them — betray signs of torture: gouged eyes; mangled genitals ; bruises and dried blood from beatings; acid and electric burns; emaciation; and marks from strangulation,” Ciralsky explained. Current Status: The treasure trove, as well as the photographer “Caesar,” is hidden from the public eye.
3. In 2015, Amnesty International documented the systematic and widespread “unthinkable atrocities” war crimes, and crimes against humanity committed by Assad’s regime, in a 74-page report (including indiscriminate use of explosive weapons, arbitrary arrests, torture, and enforced disappearances). The ‘heartbreaking’ research involved merely 78 residents (mostly former) and 29 professionals working in Aleppo .
4. The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights — the London-based monitoring group, often Quote: d as the most authoritative source of information about human rights abuse in Syria — is a tool of Western propaganda run by one man who last visited Syria in 2000 (11 years before the armed conflict began). He relies on “intelligence” allegedly gathered by around 200 “activists” who he has never met. Current Status: Whatever the SOHR claims, the mainstream media reports as truth without verifying its nature – because the SOHR does not reference any sources.
The Western Lies Why is the angry and (nowadays) concerned world not asking the United States and the mainstream media a few pertinent questions? What is the West doing in Syria? Why is the peace-loving West prolonging the war? Why is the West backing the rebels in a foreign country? Why is the West funding and arming ISIS?
Why are the Western forces not being held accountable for war crimes like bombing a hospital? Why is the mainstream media, the NGOs and the UN not holding the West accountable for crimes committed on their own land, or in Israel, Africa or Yemen?
One reason may be because of the abundance of natural gas under Syrian soil, and that this may very well be another ‘petrodollar’ war . The US had long had its gaze set on Syria – years before the civil war and the 2011 “revolution.” Leaked WikiLeaks cables show the US ambassador to Syria (2004-2007) William Roebuck discussing a plan to remove Assad from power, in December 2006 .
While the Russian and Iranian forces entered Syria on Assad’s request to fight against ISIS and armed rebels, the Western military invaded Syria — a sovereign country and United Nations member state — to violently overthrow the Syrian government.
Why didn’t the West invade Saudi Arabia to initiate “humanitarian intervention” and save innocent citizens from its brutal dictator? Saudi Arabia remains a member of the United Nations Human Rights Council and a U.S. ally, despite its poor human rights record — if attacking an independent harmless country is justified, why did the US act against Osama bin Laden?
The Western effort to annex Syria has relied on a series of crudely-spun lies and media-generated talking points. In September, RT dared to expose the top 10 Western lies about Syrian conflict that the mainstream media are trading in, to fool the Western public into backing yet another failed ‘nation-building’ project (after Yugoslavia, Iraq and Libya). Obviously, the fear mongering media didn’t find it profitable to give the lies much, if any, coverage in the West.
From calling the conflict a fault of wicked Assad, and Assad a brutal dictator who enjoyed no popular support, to portraying him as an uncompromising President interested only in ‘killing his own people’ – and not in peace and reconciliation, the list is endless. From accusing the Syrian government and Russia for helping ISIS and terming the Western interventions in Syria as humanitarian, to claiming Russia was acting out of self-interest and that the West was on the side of the ‘good guys’ in Syria, can you be certain of the ‘truth’? Realistically, the West hasn’t been fighting ‘terror’ in Syria, it has aided it.
Remember the American journalist Serena Shim, who was killed in October 2014, after she revealed the ISIS-Turkey-US link that proved the West was assisting ISIS in Syria?
The Syrian Reality Henry Lowendorf, a member of the Executive Board of the U.S. Peace Council’s Peace and Fact-Finding Delegation to Syria – who returned from Syria in August – noted: “What we saw in Syria goes against everything we read in the United States.”
Before 2011, illiteracy in Syria had been wiped out; the life expectancy was 75.9 years and the government spent massive amounts of money on improving the nation. Developing irrigation, electricity, water and road building projects, and expanding the health services and education to rural areas, all occurred; and China invested hundreds of millions of dollars to modernize Syria’s aging oil and gas infrastructure.