There is evidence out there, supporting that cannabis oil destroys cancer , cures severe epilepsy , treats muscle spasms caused by multiple sclerosis, and saves lives . The National Cancer Institute has admitted cannabis oil kills cancer cells . It is widely acknowledged that natural compounds of the cannabis — a plant that the use, sale, and possession of is still illegal in the United States — can prevent, treat and manage inflammation; neurodegenerative diseases such as multiple sclerosis; brain disorders such as epilepsy; lifestyle related diseases such as diabetes and cancer; chronic liver diseases such as liver cirrhosis; and medical conditions such as fibromyalgia.
Meanwhile, experts have come forward to make a strong case for eating unheated raw cannabis for maximum health benefits. While smoked or vaporized cannabis can be used as a medicinal therapy, they claim, eating raw cannabis can help prevent health issues from arising altogether — without psychoactive effect.
Dr. William Courtney, a California-based physician and a dietary raw cannabis specialist , says we are actually walking away from 99% of the benefits cannabis provides when we cook or smoke cannabis. He explains:
“In its raw form, the cannabis plant contains both THCA (Tetra Hydro Cannabinolic-Acid) and CBDA (Cannabidiolic-Acid), two cannabinoids known for their medicinal benefits; each of which must be heated in order to produce THC and CBD, respectively. Only when you decarboxylate THCA, turning it into THC, does it cause psychoactive effects or “the high” most associated with smoking cannabis.
“Additionally, the body is able to tolerate larger dosages of cannabinoids when cannabis is consumed in the raw form. This is because when you smoke cannabis, the THC actually acts as a CB1 receptor agonist and your body can only absorb 10 mg at a time.
“If you don’t heat cannabis, you can go up to five or six hundred milligrams and use the plant strictly as a dietary supplement by upping the anti-oxidant and neuro-protective levels which come into play at hundreds of milligrams of CBDA and THCA. It is this dramatic increase in dose from 10 mg of psychoactive THC to the 500 mg – 1,000 mg of non-psychoactive THCA, CBDA, and CBGA that comprises the primary difference between traditional medical cannabis treatments and using cannabis as a dietary supplement.”
It is no secret that cannabis contains a wealth of nutrients , proteins, vitamins, terpenes, Omega 3 and 6 fatty acids, essential amino acids, and antioxidants. When eaten raw, our body is able to process much larger amounts of THCA and CBDA — which possess anti-inflammatory properties, anti-diabetic properties, and anti-ischemic properties — and converts these cannabinoid acids — linked to the prevention of chronic diseases such as migraine, irritable bowel syndrome, glaucoma, and fibromyalgia — into essential nutrients through its metabolism.