Researchers involved in the Search for Extraterrestrial Intelligence (SETI) have announced in a paper that they have detected new messages from the stars, saying they are likely to have been generated by aliens. The researchers are from the University of Laval in Quebec, Canada. Their paper has been accepted by the journal Publications of the Astronomical Society of the Pacific and is titled ‘ Discovery of peculiar periodic spectral modulations in a small fraction of solar type stars.’
According to a print version of the paper – also available online – the title of the paper was initially proposed as ‘Signals probably from Extraterrestrial Intelligence.’ However, this was later changed due to concerns raised by some observers.
The researchers who made the discovery revealed they heard unusual messages from deep in space. For them, they strongly believe the messages are coming from aliens.
The paper revealed the finding of specific modulations in just 234 out of the 2.5 million stars that have been observed during a survey of the sky. The work found that a tiny fraction of them seemed to be behaving strangely. According to the researchers, their analysis of these modulations in a tiny set of stars, may indicate that these messages are from extraterrestrial intelligence looking to alert humanity of their existence.
The researchers said there is no obvious explanation to what they discovered, hence their conclusion that the messages are coming from aliens.
“We find that the detected signals have exactly the shape of an [extraterrestrial intelligence] signal predicted in the previous publication and are therefore in agreement with this hypothesis. The fact that they are only found in a very small fraction of stars within a narrow spectral range centered near the spectral type of the sun is also in agreement with the Extraterrestrial Intelligence hypothesis,” the researchers, EF Borra and E Trottier wrote in their paper.
The researchers also noted that further work will need to be done, in order to confirm or deny the hypothesis they have put forward. Doing so will require watching for the same signals on different equipment, aiding to discard all other explanations. This will be done by a so-called independent body.