Email 

An internal memo released Wednesday by WikiLeaks reveals how a longtime Clinton confidant played an "unorthodox" dual role – raising money for the Clinton Foundation and finding paid work for Bill Clinton, The Hill reports. 
The 12-page document written in 2011 by Doug Band of Teneo, a private consulting firm that raised millions for the foundation and also scouted out paid gigs for what was dubbed "Bill Clinton, Inc.", the Washington Examiner reports. 
In one instance, Band secured a $540,000 donation to the Clinton Foundation from banking giant UBS. He later arranged for Bill Clinton to give three paid speeches to the firm for a total of $900,000, The Hill reported. 
But in his memo, Band argues his double duties were "independent" of one another; the memo was written after Chelsea Clinton criticized Band's role within the family's network of interests, The Hill reports. 
"In the unique roles in which we have had the opportunity to serve, we have been able to help balance the multiplicity of activities that demand [Bill Clinton's] time and engagement to best fulfill his personal, political, business, official former President, and Foundation/non-profit goals," Band writes. 
According to The Hill, Teneo's overlapping responsibilities worried some in the Clintons' inner circle, and in one email published by WikiLeaks, Chelsea Clinton raised "serious concerns" with Teneo's liberal use of the Clinton name to court clients. 
Band lashed out, calling the former first daughter a meddlesome "spoiled brat" in one hacked email released by WikiLeaks. 
"We appreciate the unorthodox nature of our roles, and the goal of seeking ways to ensure we are implementing best practices to protect the [tax exempt] status of the Foundation," Band wrote in his memo to justify his role and bat back criticism, The Hill reports. 
Band co-founded Teneo with former State Department employee Declan Kelly while Hillary Clinton was secretary of state – and paid Bill Clinton as an adviser through 2012, The Hill reports. 
Band's memo lists several Teneo clients that he and Kelly "leveraged" into major donors for the foundation, and also details the personal introductions the two principals made between the Clintons and the prospective donors, The Hill reports. 
One that Kelly "cultivated" was Coca-Cola CEO Muhtar Kent, which led to seven-figure donations beginning in 2009. 
In a previous hacked email to Hillary Clinton campaign chairman John Podesta, Band worried the press might catch wind of his role and misconstrue it. 
"I'm starting to worry that if this story gets out, we are screwed," Band wrote. 
"[Kelly] and I built a business. Our business has almost nothing to do with the Clintons, the foundation or [the Clinton Global Initiative] in any way. The chairman of UBS could care a less [sic] about CGI." 
A week after Band sent his memo, Clinton lawyer Cheryl Mills sent a document to Podesta and Band laying out ways to unwind the former president's charitable and business interests — all of which distanced Band from the foundation. 
In December 2011, the former president resigned his position on Teneo’s advisory board, The Hill reports.